Haruhi: This place has four library rooms. You'd think one of them would be quiet. How are things in heaven, mom? I can't believe it's been 10 years already. I'm beginning to think that rich kids only come to school to have a good time. An abandoned music room. I guess this is the only place I'll be able to study in peace and quiet.
Host club members: Welcome!
Haruhi: When I opened the door, I found the host club.
 "Starting Today, You are a Host!"
 Tamaki: Only those with excellent social standing and those from filthy rich families are lucky enough to spend their time here at the elite private school, Ouran academy. The Ouran host club is where the school's handsomest boys with too much time on their hands entertain young ladies who also have way too much time on their hands. Just think of it as Ouran academy's elegant playground for the super-rich and beautiful.
Haruhi: This is a host club?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh wow, it's a boy.
Kyoya: Hikaru, Kaoru, I believe this young man is in the same class as you, isn't he?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Yeah, but he's shy. He doesn't act very sociably, so we don't know much about him.
Kyoya: Oh, that wasn't very polite. Welcome to the Ouran host club, Mr. honor student.
Tamaki: What? You must be Haruhi Fujioka. You're the exceptional honor student we've heard about.
Haruhi: How did you know my name?
Kyoya: Why, you're infamous. It's not every day that a commoner gains entrance into our academy. You must have an audacious nerve to work hard enough to fight your way into this school as an honor student, Mr. Fujioka.
Haruhi: Well ah- thank you. I guess.
Tamaki: You're welcome. You are a hero to other poor people, Fujioka. You've shown the world that even a poor person can excel at an elite private academy. It must be hard for you to constantly be looked down upon by others.
Haruhi: I think you're taking this poor thing too far.
Tamaki: Spurned, neglected. But that doesn't matter now. Long live the poor! We welcome you, poor man, to our world of beauty!
Haruhi: I'm outta here.
Honey: Hey! Come back here, Haru-chan! You must be like a super hero or something. That's so cool!
Haruhi: I'm not a hero. I'm an honor student. And who are you calling Haru-chan?
Tamaki: I never would have imagined the famous scholar would be so openly gay.
Haruhi: Openly what?
Tamaki: So tell me what kind of guys you're into. Do you like the strong silent type? The boy lolita? How about the mischievous type? Or the cool type?
Haruhi: I uh... I-It's not like that. I was just looking for a quiet place to study.
Tamaki: Or maybe you're into a guy like me. What do you say?
Hikaru: Awww.
Hikaru and Kaoru: We were going to feature that Renaissance vase in an upcoming school auction.
Kaoru: Oh now you've done it, commoner. The bidding on that vase was supposed to start at 8 million yen.
Haruhi What, 8 million yen? How many thousand yen is that? How many thousands are in 8 million? I'm gonna have to pay you back.
Hikaru and Kaoru: With what money? You can't even afford [a/the] school uniform.
Kaoru: What's with that grubby outfit you've got on anyway?
Kyoya: Well, what do you think we should do, Tamaki?
Tamaki: There's a famous saying you may have heard, Fujioka. When in Rome, you should do as the Romans do. Since you have no money, you can pay with your body. That means, starting today, you are the host club's dog.
Haruhi: I don't know if I can handle this, mom. I've been captured by a bunch of boys that are calling themselves a host club.
Honey: Poke, poke.
Girl: Tamaki, what's your favorite song?
Tamaki: What song? The one that reminds me of you, of course.
Girl: I baked you a cake, today. Would you like to taste it?
Tamaki: Only if you'll feed it to me, darling.
Girl: Oh how you're so dreamy.
Ayanokoji: May I have a word with you, Tamaki? I've recently heard the host club's keeping a little kitten without a pedigree.
Tamaki: I don't know if I'd call him that. Speak of the devil. Thanks for doing the shopping, little piglet. Did you get everything on our list?
Haruhi: What? Piglet?
Tamaki: Hey, wait a minute. What is this?
Haruhi: Just what it looks like. It's coffee.
Tamaki: I've never seen this brand before. Is this the kind that's already ground?
Haruhi: What do you mean? It's instant coffee.
Girls: It's instant?
Tamaki Wow, I've heard of this before. It's commoners' coffee. You just add hot water.
Girl: I didn't know there was such a thing.
Girl: So, it's true then, poor people don't even have enough free time to grind their own coffee beans.
Kyoya: Commoners are pretty smart.
Hikaru: 100 grams for 300 yen?
Kaoru: That's a lot less than we normally pay.
Haruhi: I'll go back and get something else. Excuse me for not buying you guys expensive coffee.
Tamaki: No, I'll keep it. I'm going to give it a try. I will drink this coffee! All right, Haruhi, get over here and make some of this commoners' coffee.
Haruhi: I hate all these damn rich people.
Ayanokoji: Oh Tamaki, now you're taking the joke too far. Your palate won't be able to stomach that crap. You don't have to drink it just because he bought it. I'm sorry. I was talking to myself.
Tamaki: Haruhi.
Haruhi: I'm coming. Here.
Tamaki: Let the tasting begin.
Girl: I'm a little scared to drink this stuff.
Girl: I'm afraid if I drink this, my father will yell at me.
Tamaki What if I let you drink it from my mouth?
Girl: Oh well then, I would drink it.
Haruhi: This is ridiculous.
 Hikaru: So he had this nightmare that made him bolt up right out of bed.
Kaoru: Hikaru, don't tell them that story. I asked you not to tell anyone that. Why are you so mean to me?
Hikaru: I'm sorry, Kaoru. I didn't mean to upset you. But you were so adorable when it happened that I had to tell them. I'm sorry.
Kaoru: I forgive you.
Girls: I've never seen brotherly love quite like that.
Haruhi: What are they so excited about? I just don't get it.
Honey: Sorry, we're running late.
Girl: Hello, Honey! Hey Mori!
Girl: We've been waiting here for you guys, hi!
Honey: I'm sorry. I was waiting for Takashi to finish his Kendo meeting and I fell asleep. And I'm still not completely awake.
Girls: So cute!
Haruhi: Is that boy really a third year student?
Kyoya: Honey Senpai may seem young and childish, but he's a prodigy. And then Mori Senpai's allure is his strong and silent disposition.
Honey: Haru-chan! Hey Haru-chan, do you wanna go have some cake with me?
Haruhi: Thanks, but I don't really like cake.
Honey: Then, how would you like to hold my bunny, Usa-chan?
Haruhi: I'm not into bunnies.
Honey: Are you saying you don't like Usa-chan?
Haruhi: I guess he is kinda cute, huh?
Honey: Take good care of him, okay?
Kyoya: You'll notice that our club utilizes each man's unique characteristics to cater to the desires of our guests. Just so you know, Tamaki is No.1 around here. He is the king. His request rate is 70%.
Haruhi: What's this world coming to?
Kyoya: And in order for you to pay off your 8 million yen debt with us, you will act as the Ouran host club's dog until you graduate. I'm sorry, I meant our errand boy. You can try to run away if you want to, Haruhi, but just so you know, my family employs a private police force of 100 officers. By the way, do you have a passport?
Tamaki: You're going to have to work hard to pay off that debt, my little nerd.
Haruhi: Please don't do that again.
Tamaki: You need a makeover, or no girl's going to look twice at you.
Haruhi: Yeah, well, I'm not trying to get girls to look at me.
Tamaki: Are you kidding me? That's the most important thing. You have to learn to be a gentleman and please the ladies like me.
Haruhi: I just don't think it's all that important. Why should I care about appearances and labels anyway? I mean, all that really matters is what's on the inside, right? I don't understand why you even have a host club like this.
Tamaki: It's a cruel reality, isn't it? It's not often that god creates a perfect person like Moi! Beautiful both inside and out.
Haruhi: Say what?
Tamaki: I understand how you feel since not everyone is as blessed as I am, but you must console yourself, otherwise how would you go on living? And think about this, Haruhi. Why do you think they put works of art in museums? Because beauty should be shared with the world. And those born beautiful should promote other beautiful things.
Haruhi: There's a word to describe people like him.
Tamaki: That's why I started this club in the first place. I did it for those who are starved for beauty.
Haruhi: What is it?
Tamaki: For those working day and night, pursing beauty. And ...
Haruhi: Oh man, I wish I could remember that word.
Tamaki: I've chosen to share my expertise with you. Here's a tip. When setting down your glass, extend your pinky finger as a cushion. And that way, when you set it down, you won't be making a lot of noise. Gentlemen do not make uncouth sounds. Besides ...
Haruhi: Maybe, a pain in the neck? No. There's something that fits him perfectly.
Tamaki: ... But above all else, Haruhi, you must remember... ...how effective a glance to this side can be.
Haruhi: Huh, I got it.
Tamaki: Oh, did I strike a chord?
Haruhi: Obnoxious. I'm sorry, Tamaki senpai.
Hikaru: You're a hero, all right.
Haruhi: But he is a pain in the neck. I'm sorry, senpai. But your lesson did strike a small chord with me.
Tamaki: Really? It did? Let me teach you more, my friend.
Haruhi: Well, he got over that quick.
Kaoru: Boss.
Tamaki: Call me king.
Kaoru: You can teach him all the basics of hosting.
Hikaru: But he's not going to get very far with the ladies if he doesn't look the part, you know. He's not exactly host club material, but maybe if we took off his glasses, it'd help.
Haruhi: Hey, I need those. I used to have contacts, but I lost them on the first day of school.
Tamaki: Hikaru, Kaoru.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Got it.
Tamaki: Kyoya, my hair stylist. Mori senpai, go to the eye doctor and get him some contact lenses.
Honey: What about me, Tama-chan?
Tamaki: Honey senpai.
Honey: Yes sir.
Tamaki: You, go have some cake.
Honey: It's just us, Usa-chan. Everyone else said they were too busy.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Here. Change into this uniform.
Haruhi: What? But why?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Don't ask questions.
Haruhi: No way!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Change! Change! Change!
Haruhi: Fine I'll change, but you two have to get out!
HIkaru and Kaoru: Whoa...
Haruhi: Um, senpai?
Tamaki: Aren't you done changing yet?
Haruhi: You sure it's really okay for me to keep this uniform?
Tamaki: Cute! You're as pretty as a girl. Adorable!
Honey: Haru-chan, you look so cute!
Hikaru: If we had known that's how you really look...
Kaoru: ...we would have helped you out sooner.
Kyoya: Who knows, maybe he'll draw in some customers.
Tamaki You know, that's just what I was thinking. Our errand boy is moving up the ranks. Starting today, you are an official member of the host club. I will personally train you to be a first-rate host. If you can get 100 customers to request your service, we will completely forget about your 8 million yen debt.
Haruhi: A host?
Girl: So, tell me, Haruhi. Do you have any hobbies? What do you like to do?
Girl: I'm curious. What kind of products do you use on your skin?
Girl: Yeah, it's so pretty.
Haruhi: I can't do this any more. I have no idea what I'm supposed to do.
Girls: So why did you join the host club, Haruhi?
Haruhi: All I have to do is get 100 customers to request me and they'll forget about my 8 million yen debt. I know just the story.
Girl: I see. Your mother was sick and passed away 10 years ago. Who does the chores around the house?
Haruhi: Oh, I do them myself. My mother taught me. She was an amazing cook. And when she went to the hospital, she left me all kinds of great recipes. It was fun to create each dish, especially when they turned out well. And it made me happy to see my dad enjoy it. I've had a hard childhood, but dad and I have managed to make it through okay.
Girl: So... uh...
Girl: is it okay if tomorrow...
Girl: ...we request to sit with you again?
Haruhi: Yeah, I really appreciate that, ladies.
Tamaki: Why is he so popular?
Kyoya: He's a natural.
Hikaru and Kaoru: No training needed.
Ayanokoji: Have you forgotten about me?
Tamaki: Oh no, sorry princess. I'm just a little bit concerned about our newest host.
Ayanokoji: Well, that's obvious, Tamaki. You sure have been keeping an eye on him.
Tamaki: Of course, I have to. I'm training him to be a gentleman like me. Haruhi, come here for a minute.
Haruhi: What's up?
Tamaki: I'd like you to meet someone. This is my regular guest, princess Ayanokoji.
Haruhi: It's that girl from earlier. Miss, it's a pleasure to meet you.
Tamaki: That was so cute! That air of bashfulness was very good! Super good, amazingly good!
Ayanokoji Oh, Tamaki.
Tamaki: Oh, you're so cute!
Haruhi: Mori senpai! Help me!
Tamaki: Mori senpai, you really didn't have to go that far. Come on, little one. Let daddy give you a big hug.
Haruhi: I've already got a dad. I don't need another one.
 Haruhi: Hey, what happened to my bag? Are you kidding me? But how did that happen? I didn't think there were bullies at this school. Hm. Guess they're everywhere.
Ayanokoji: Oh, it's you again. I bet you love having Tamaki making you over and fawning over you. It's useless, though. You're always going to be a second class citizen.
Haruhi: I have a feeling that girl is the one who threw my bag in the pond. I can't be bothered with her right now, though. I've gotta find my wallet or I won't have any money for food this week.
Tamaki: Hey, commoner! You've got some nerve, skipping out on the club like that. Why is your bag all wet?
Haruhi: Eh, it's no big deal. I got it. I just can't find my food money. Hey, you don't have to do that. You'll get wet.
Tamaki: A little water never hurt anyone. Besides, people are always telling me that I'm dripping with good looks. Hang on a second. This what you're looking for? What's the matter? You're staring off into space. You're not falling for me, are you?
Haruhi: No way.
Tamaki: How did your bag end up in the pond anyway?
Haruhi: Well, uh... I guess I accidentally dropped it out the window at some point.
Ayanokoji: Oh really, that must have been terrible. I can't imagine what I'd do if my bag fell into the pond.
Haruhi: Why did she request me when it's obvious she doesn't like me?
Ayanokoji: And you actually made Tamaki search that dirty old pond with you. How astonishing. You do realize he's a blue blood, not a commoner, right? The only reason he's paying attention to you is because he's trying to turn you into a gentleman. Don't start thinking he cares about you just because he's doting on you.
Haruhi: Now I understand. You're jealous of me.
Ayanokoji: No, Haruhi, leave me alone! Somebody, help! He just attacked me! Someone, do something! Teach this commoner a lesson! Why did you do that? Do something, Tamaki. Haruhi just assaulted me.
Tamaki: I'm disappointed in you. You threw his bag into the pond, didn't you?
Ayanokoji: You don't know that. Do you have any proof that I did?
Tamaki: You know, you're a beautiful girl. But you aren't classy enough to be our guest, dear. If there's one thing I know, Haruhi is not that kind of a man.
Ayanokoji: But why, Tamaki? You idiot!
Tamaki: Hmm, now how am I going to punish you? Because it is your fault after all. Your quota is now one thousand!
Haruhi: One thousand?
Tamaki: Come on. I've got high expectations for you, my little rookie.
Kyoya: This is the only spare uniform we have. Sorry, but it's better than a wet one, right?
Haruhi: Thanks a lot, you guys. I'm gonna go change.
Tamaki: Haruhi, here you go. I brought you some towels. Haruhi.
Haruhi: Yeah.
Tamaki: So, you're a girl?
Haruhi: Biologically speaking, yeah. Listen, senpai, I don't really care whether you guys recognize me as a boy or a girl. In my opinion, it's more important for a person to be recognized for who they are rather than for what sex they are.
Kyoya: Well, isn't this an interesting development.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh, yeah.
Haruhi: Uh, you know, I have to say, senpai. I thought you were pretty cool earlier.
Kyoya: Now I could be wrong, but I think we may be witnessing the beginnings of love here.
Haruhi: Being a host and getting fussed over by a bunch of girls might not be that bad. I wonder how I [could/can] pull it off. I've got it. I'll just call everyone dude and bro now.
 Tamaki: Don't start getting full of yourself just because you're popular. If you're going to be a host,
Haruhi: Wow. Another customer has requested me.
Tamaki: Don't take my customers!
Haruhi: Next time, "The Job of a High School Host."
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Haruhi: I'm never gonna hear the end of it if I show up late. What's this? Where am I?
Host members: Welcome.
Haruhi: When I opened the door, the whole place was decked out like a tropical paradise. Can you see this from Heaven, mom? This is the club I was forced to join.
"The Job of a High School Host."
Hikaru and Kaoru: You finally made it, Haruhi. You're so late.
Haruhi: I could be wrong, but my calendar says it's still early spring.
Tamaki: Huddling under a kotatsu table, fearing the cold is nonsense. And besides the heating system we have is the best.
Kyoya: Do you have a problem with the way we run our club, Haruhi? Be careful what you say. You owe us 8 million yen, remember?
Tamaki: Gentlemen don't bundle up in bulky clothing. It may be a chilly early spring out there in the real world, but here at the club we want to surprise our chilly little kittens with a warm tropical paradise. Oh yes. We've turned this place into nirvana, a balmy tropical island of everlasting summer.
Haruhi: That's funny 'cause I feel a massive chill right now.
Tamaki: Only those with excellent social standing and those from filthy rich families are lucky enough to spend their time here at the elite private school, Ouran academy. The Ouran host club is where the school's handsomest boys with too much time on their hands entertain young ladies who also have way too much time on their hands. Just think of it as Ouran academy's elegant playground for the super-rich and beautiful.
What heartlessness. Even with my lustrous skin shining like brilliant ivory, exposed by my Balinese king outfit, I'm no more than a slave before my goddess. I kneel before you and swear my loyalty.
Girl: Tamaki.
Girl: Tamaki.
Girl: Oh wow.
Tamaki: Oh yes. I almost forgot to mention to you, ladies. Next week, the Ouran host club is sponsoring a party.
Haruhi: We're throwing a party?
Girl: What kind of party is it going to be? Is it going to be formal?
Hikaru: Yes, in fact we've rented the school's largest hall.
Kaoru: It's a perfect place for dancing.
Hikaru: But I really wanted to spend some alone time with you, Kaoru.
Kaoru: Don't be upset, Hikaru. I know exactly how you feel.
Haruhi: The guests seem to be even more worked up than they usually are.
Kyoya: Showing some skin proves popular with the ladies.
Haruhi: So are you the one who came up with this tropical paradise idea?
Kyoya: I have no decision-making authority. All the club's policies have been laid out by the club's king, Tamaki. But I guess there's no harm in admitting to casually slipping a Bali photo book onto his desk.
Haruhi: So he's the real brains behind the operation.
Honey: Ta-da.
Girls: Oh, you're so cute, Honey.
Honey: Hi ladies, I love these Balinese flowers. We had them flown in. Takashi. There. We match.
Girl: You're covered in camellias.
Haruhi: I'm still thoroughly confused by the two of them.
Girl: Um Haruhi? Aren't you going to wear a tropical outfit like the other boys?
Girl: I'd like to see that.
Haruhi: Oh well, no, I... I just don't think it's appropriate to wear anything but early spring attire in early spring, you know?
Tamaki: But we have one ready for you, Haruhi. I think you'll like it. You and I are a pair.
Haruhi: No thanks.
Girl: Wow Haruhi, you're really faithful to the different seasons, aren't you?
Girl: I think that's great. I hope we're lucky enough that the cherry blossoms are in full bloom on the night of the party.
Girl: The two of us dancing among the cherry blossoms. It's so dreamy.
Haruhi: You really think so? You know, ladies. I think it's so cute when you dream like that.
Kanako: Excuse me. I hate to disturb, but I think it's time for the hosts to switch clients.
Haruhi: Oh, I'm sorry. You must be my next appointment, Miss...
Kanako: My name is Kanako, Kanako Kasugazaki. You're even cuter than I expected. I've decided. From now on, you're going to be my new favorite host, Haruhi.
Tamaki: I can't take this any more.
Hikaru: Hey boss, why don't you stop eating that commoner's ramen and come over here to help us with the party planning?
Kaoru: Does it really bother you that princess Kasuga has taken a liking to Haruhi?
Kyoya: He shouldn't be surprised. She's had the illness for a while now, hasn't she?
Haruhi: What illness?
Hikaru: She's got the host hopping disease.
Kaoru: AKA never-the-same-boy-twice disease.
Kyoya: Usually, our customers choose a favorite host and see them regularly. However, princess Kanako tends to change her favorites on a regular basis.
Honey: That's right. 'Cause before she chose you, she was with Tama-chan.
Haruhi: Oh, so he's upset because I took her from him?
Tamaki: Shut up! I couldn't care less. I'm running out of patience. Haruhi, it's time you started dressing like a girl. I don't understand how you could be so popular with the ladies, when you yourself are a lady. No one in the entire school knows the truth except for those of us here.
Hikaru: Yeah, she opted out of taking gym classes.
Kaoru: And the attendance numbers are all mixed together so no one can tell.
Tamaki: That's enough, Haruhi. Now you listen to Daddy. Daddy wants you to go back to the way you were.
Haruhi: Don't go blowing up my photos without asking me first.
Hikaru: The more I look at this picture, the more amazed I am. How could this possibly become that?
Haruhi: The day before school started, one of the kids in my neighborhood got some gum in my hair. It's a real pain to get gum out of long hair. So I decided to cut it all off. I didn't care if I look like a dude, you know.
Tamaki: Girls should never refer to themselves as a dude. Momma, Haruhi's using those dirty boy words again.
Kaoru: I'm sorry, but who is momma?
Kyoya: Based on club position, I assume it's me.
Haruhi: Look, I don't see what you're crying about. Working as a host, I can pay back more of my debt. It'll never happen if I'm just an errand boy.
Hikaru: Hate to change the subject, but do you have formal dancing experience? You'll need it at the party.
Haruhi: Uh... no. But the party doesn't have anything to do with my quota, right? I'm not interested in going to events, so if I could be excused...
Tamaki: Definitely not. A refined gentleman must know how to dance. If you want to live the life of a host that badly, you're going to have to show us how far you're willing to go, Haruhi. I order you to master dancing the waltz in one week and you will demonstrate it for us at the party. Or I'll tell the entire school that you're a girl and knock you back down to an errand boy.
 Kanako: Quick, quick, slow. Quick, quick, slow. Good work, Haruhi. Now on the "slow", you should bring your feet together. Remember. The gentleman always leads. And make sure to look at the lady you're dancing with.
Haruhi: Got it. I'm so sorry, Miss Kasugazaki.
Kanako: It's okay, Haruhi.
Haruhi: Ah, can I help you up? Let's try it again.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Why so gloomy, boss?
Hikaru: I bet it's because he wanted to be the one Haruhi practices with.
Kaoru: I think you may be right. But he's way too tall to stand in as a woman.
Haruhi: Thank you so much for allowing me to practice with you. I really appreciate it.
Kanako: Oh, no problem. I heard that you're not seeing any customers today so that you can practice dancing. I'm glad I got to spend this time alone with you. Oh, my! This is a new tea set, isn't it? It's Ginori.
Haruhi: Ginori?
Kyoya: You have a keen eye, mademoiselle. In fact, we just received them yesterday. We decided that it was about time for the club to upgrade its tea sets.
Kanako: I see. What a pretty color. Lovely.
Haruhi: You must really be into tableware, huh?
Kanako: Not really, I mean no, of course, I'm not. Whatever would give you that idea?
Haruhi: She obviously knows a lot about it. Why would she lie?
Suzushima: Hello? I'm here with the new tea cups you ordered.
Kyoya: Ah, thank you very much. Every item that you've chosen for us has been extremely popular with the ladies. I'm quite impressed.
Suzushima: Well, that's good to hear.
Haruhi: So, do you sell tea sets?
Suzushima: No, I'm just a regular student. Can't you tell by the uniform?
Kanako: Oh Haruhi, you're so funny. I can't blame you for not knowing. After all, he doesn't really look like an heir to a first-class company.
Haruhi: First-class company?
Kyoya: His family's business, the Suzushima trading company, deals primarily in the importing of tableware. They currently have the top market share in the country.
Haruhi: Wow!
Kyoya: So whenever something exceptional comes in, we've asked him to send it our way. He has a great eye for fine china. Dont' you, Suzushima?
Suzushima: You think? I've still got a lot to learn, but thank you.
Kyoya: Aren't you leaving next month to study abroad in England?
Suzushima: Yes, I am. Well, I better go now.
Tamaki: So, are you enjoying the host club?
Haruhi: I get the feeling you and that guy are kinda close.
Kanako: Don't be ridiculous. We hardly know each other. What makes you say that, Haruhi? Now, if you'll please excuse me. Take care.
Honey: Haru-chan! Guess what? They do know each other. Suzushima is Kasuga-chan's fiance.
Tamaki: Kyoya, how long have you known about this?
Kyoya: About the two of them being engaged? Well, as you know, I conduct general researches on all of our customers. The two of them were childhood friends. It seems their engagement was arranged by their parents. I didn't think the information would benefit us. So I disregarded it.
Tamaki: I see.
Kyoya: Toru Suzushima. Outstanding grades, fair social status. He's ordinary looking. But he's reliable. If I had to fault him for anything...
Hikaru: He doesn't have much presence.
Kaoru: And he's faint-hearted.
Kyoya: So, in other words, he's boring.
Haruhi: I had no idea they were so merciless toward other guys.
Honey: Suzushima is a good boy, right?
Mori: Yeah.
Tamaki: All right, everyone. We'll have to work on our strategy.
Host members: Which one?
Tamaki: Men, it is our responsibility as members of the elite Ouran host club to make every girl happy.
 Tamaki: It is so good to see you here tonight, my little lambs. The Ouran host club would like to bid you welcome.
Kyoya: As always, ladies, the host club members are here for your entertainment. So we invite you to dance to your heart's content. Based on her dancing skills, one lucky young lady will be chosen as tonight's queen. The queen's reward will be a passionate kiss on the cheek from our king.
Tamaki: Good luck to you, my darlings.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Haruhi, show some enthusiasm.
Haruhi: Well, excuse me, you guys. Sorry. I'm not used to this sort of thing. I've only ever gone to the festivals held in my neighborhood park.
Kyoya: I don't know if you can really consider that a party or not. Well, since you're already here, you might as well get yourself something to eat. We've got quite a spread.
Haruhi: A spread? With fancy tuna?
Honey: Fan-
Hikaru and Kaoru: -cy...
Tamaki: ...tuna? Get some fancy tuna here right now.
Kyoya: Add some deluxe sushi.
Haruhi: Damn these filthy rich jerks.
Kanako: Hello, Haruhi. I've been looking all over for you. Do you think maybe I could have the next dance?
Haruhi: Yeah. Of course you can.
Honey: Kasuga-chan is here.
Tamaki: All right, men. Then let us commence with our operation.
Honey and Mori: Roger!
Haruhi: Wah!
Kanako: What? Kidnapped?
Kaoru: There she is.
Haruhi: You didn't have to be so forceful.
Hikaru: Never mind that, go get changed.
Kyoya: A little accident towards the end of night would be quite thrilling. And remember, Haruhi, there are only 20 minutes remaining before the party reaches its climax. Suzushima is already waiting for you in the classroom across the hall.
Honey: You have to ask him how he feels, okay?
Hikaru and Kaoru: We know this is the boss's strategy, but it's kind of unsettling.
Tamaki: Gentlemen! Here you all are. What are you doing? The guests are waiting for...
Hikaru and Kaoru: So, what do you think?
Honey: Wow, you look so cute!
Haruhi: My face feels heavy, and it's hard to walk in these shoes.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Good luck, Haruhi.
Tamaki: I can't believe. She's so pretty!
Suzushima: You are the one who wrote this letter? You're totally different from what I imagined.
Haruhi: Letter?
Letter: I'm in love-love. From the first time I saw you, I've been head over heels in love. Tee-hee-hee. It's like my heart is stuck in a never-ending typhoon. All these feelings of love keep whipping around in my heart like the breaking waves. When the typhoon's rising water's come, I want to rendezvous with you on Noah's Ark! I do! I do!
Haruhi: Who wrote such a stupid letter?
Suzushima: Excuse me. Have we met somewhere before?
Haruhi: No. This is the first time I've ever talked to you.
Suzushima: I'm sorry. I'm flattered by your letter but I'm afraid I don't feel the same way. You see, another girl already has my heart.
Haruhi: Oh, I didn't know you had a girlfriend.
Suzushima: Unfortunately, she is not my girlfriend. In fact, I think she's completely over me. In all honesty, she'd be happier with someone more self-confident than me.
Kanako: Where exactly are you taking me, Tamaki?
Tamaki: You know. You're not the kind of girl who's good at manipulating others.
Kanako: What do you mean by that?
Tamaki: I have you figured out, Kanako. I know you're switching from host to host to get his attention. And I've noticed that you always look the happiest gazing into a teacup.
Suzushima: Hey, check these out, Kanako.
Kanako: So pretty.
Suzushima: There's a Wedgwood, a Forley, a Worcester... Over here is a Ginori, and a Meissen. Someday, you're gonna be my wife, Kanako. So I'll tell you about all of them, 'kay?
Kanako: It's pointless. It doesn't matter how hard I try. He never notices me. And now he's decided to study abroad without... without even telling me.
Suzushima: That's why I decided I need to change. I want to see the world, hopefully become a better man. I know it's selfish, but I wonder if she'll wait for me.
Haruhi: Yeah, you're right. That is pretty selfish of you. But maybe she would wait. You'll never know if you don't tell her how you feel. You obviously have strong feelings for her, so why not go head and talk to her? I think once you decided to change, then you've already begun your transformation.
Suzushima: Kanako...
Kanako: I'm so sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt you two. I just...
Suzushima: Kanako! Kanako!
Haruhi: Looks like we just made matters worse.
Tamaki: But he did go running after her.
Haruhi: It's our responsibility as members of the elite Ouran host club to make every girl happy.
Tamaki: Ladies and gentlemen. It is now time for us to begin the final dance of this evening's festivities. The last waltz of the night has been chosen by the host club for this couple.
Suzushima: Princess Kasuga, may I have this dance?
Kanako: Yes.
Suzushima: I love you, Kanako. I've always loved you. And I want you to be my wife.
Kanako: Tonight marks the end of my host hopping.
Tamaki: May this awkward couple be forever blessed!
Hikaru: And now we'll announce the queen of the ball.
Kaoru: Congratulations, Princess Kanako Kasugazaki.
Hikaru: And for her reward, a kiss on the cheek from the king...
Tamaki: You ready?
Kaoru: Haruhi Fujioka will stand in for Tamaki.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Kyoya did say that a little accident towards the end of night might make even more thrilling for everyone.
Suzushima: It's just on the cheek, right? You should accept it. It will commemorate your graduation from host-hopping.
Haruhi: There's no way I can kiss her.
Kyoya: If you do it, we'll cut your debt by one-third.
Haruhi: Well, it is just a peck on the cheek.
Honey: Hey, you don't think this is Haru-chan's first kiss, do you?
Tamaki: What? Wait, Haruhi!
Haruhi: I never would have thought that I'd end up giving my first kiss to another girl. But it was such an amazing night. So I guess it's just as well.
 Haruhi: If word gets out that I'm really a girl, I won't be able to stay in the Host club.
Tamaki: Don't you worry, Haruhi. I will protect your secret, no matter what.
Haruhi: Next time, "Beware the Physical Exam".
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Tamaki: Only those with excellent social standing and those from filthy rich families are lucky enough to spend their time here at the elite private school, Ouran academy. The Ouran host club is where the school's handsomest boys with too much time on their hands entertain young ladies who also have way too much time on their hands. Just think of it as Ouran academy's elegant playground for the super-rich and beautiful.
Host club members: Welcome ladies.
Tamaki: So, in which cup would my princess like her tea? The Foley? The Worcester? Or perhaps the Susie Cooper Gardenia?
Girl: Beautiful. These are English antiques, aren't they? Which one do you like, Tamaki?
Tamaki: Which one? Well, none of these compare to my princess.
Girl: Wow, I don't really know what to say.
Kaoru: You mean you've never been to Covent Garden?
Girl: No, all of our antiques are from Portobello Road.
Hikaru: I think you'd like Covent Garden. Most of our Victorian pieces are from there. Kaoru? Honestly, Kaoru. You have to be more careful. From now on, keep your eyes on me, okay?
Kaoru: Yes, Hikaru.
Girl: I can't take it. It's overwhelming.
Girl: You have to watch this. You may not get another chance. Who knows it will happen again?
Kyoya: You are absolutely right, mademoiselle. All beauty is fleeting. Just take a look at these cherry blossoms. You'll never be able to see them this vibrant again. And that's why I've compiled this picture book that contains photo that capture the beauty of each passing day. Incidentally, I've prepared similar books of the other hosts as well. And if you ladies are interested in collecting all four of them, I'll discount the full set for you.
Girl: I'll take them.
Girl: Me too, please.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Well, now we know how the club makes extra money.
Hikaru: But I have to wonder.
Kaoru: When did he take pictures of us?
Haruhi: Should I say something to him?
Mori: Mitsukuni, you overdid it.
Haruhi: He told him.
Girl: Honey, I'll take it. It looks so yummy.
Girl: It's just the right amount for both of us. Any more would be too much. How did you know? You never cease to amaze me.
Honey: Really?
Tamaki: Haruhi, how are you doing? Are you having a good time?
Haruhi: Tamaki senpai.
Tamaki: The flower-viewing reception is going over quite well. But even so, it's rather daunting to spend more time being admired than doing the admiring.
Haruhi: Oh wow senpai, you're blooming in more ways than one.
Tamaki: You noticed. Yes, today, my beauty is quite splendorous. I'm in full bloom. I bet you'll fall for me soon.
Haruhi: I swear this guy must live his life completely unaware of the hardships of this world.
Hikaru and Kaoru: So, Haruhi, have you decided your elective courses for this term?
Kaoru: How about conversational French?
Haruhi: I don't know.
Hikaru: I think the three of us should take it together. It makes perfect sense.
Hikaru and Kaoru: We are in the same class.
Tamaki: Say, Mommy dear?
Kyoya: What is it now, Daddy?
Tamaki: I have a new theory. I mean, it's just my hypothesis. But it seems that by being in the same class, Hikaru and Kaoru are able to spend more time with Haruhi than I get to here at the club. This gives them a chance to get close to her, and if that happens...
Kyoys: Tamaki, you just now realize that? According to my research, in a single day, the twin spend roughly nine hours of class time with Haruhi. Meanwhile, your contact with her is limited to a couple of hours of club activities. In other words, your involvement in Haruhi's life each day amounts to no more than a mere 3%. I'm so very sorry.
Tamaki: Aah! I don't wanna hear it. I don't wanna hear it. Listen, Haruhi. I want you to stop hanging out with shady twins from now on.
Hikaru: Who you calling shady?
Kaoru: Yeah, take a good look at yourself, boss.
Tamaki: Yes, that's it. All right then. We can't go on hiding the fact that you're a girl from everyone in the school any longer. All daddy wants is for you to go back to being the girl you used to be, for you to surround yourself with girlfriends and start leading a wholesome life.
Haruhi: Who are you calling daddy?
Tamaki: So, do it. Change back now. Change right now.
Hikaru: You don't have to rush things. She's going to be found out soon enough.
Kaoru: Physical exams are the day after tomorrow.
Haruhi Physical exams?
Kyoya: That's right. I forgot all about it.
Haruhi: Then that means there's no doubt. They're gonna know I'm really a girl.
 "Beware the Physical Exam!"
 Tamaki: Haruhi. Been waiting long? What's the matter? You look a little down.
Haruhi: I can't help it. Everyone keeps staring at me for some reason. I'm so embarrassed.
Tamaki: They're looking at you because you're lovely. Don't you worry. I promise that I will protect you no matter what.
Haruhi: Oh senpai, that makes me feel better. Thank you. I mean it.
Haruhi: I'm in love-love with you, Tamaki senpai.
Tamaki: Oh you.
Honey: He must be having a great daydream.
Hikaru: He's kind of creeping me out.
Tamaki: Envious, Hikaru? This is all part of my strategy. While you've wasted time blinded by your jealousy, I've foreseen the outcome of this charade. This anime is obviously a romantic school comedy. Haruhi and I are the main characters. So that means we are love interests.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Yeah, then what are we?
Tamaki: You boys are the homosexual supporting cast. So, please make sure that you don't step across this line.
Hikaru and Kaoru: You've gotta be kidding.
Hikaru: Hey listen, boss.
Kaoru: I don't think you get it.
Honey: If word gets out that Hary-chan is really a girl, then she won't be able to be in the host club any more. But if Haru-chan started wearing girls' clothes, I bet she'd be even cuter than she is now.
Hikaru: She dressed like a regular girl when she was in middle school, right? She must've been pretty popular with all the boys.
Kyoya: Yeah, according to my investigative report, someone would declare their undying love to her at least once a month.
Kaoru: Oh, I see. So the boss wouldn't even be able to get close to her.
Hikaru: But we'd be able to because we're in class with her all day long.
Tamaki: No way.
Haruhi: Hey guys, sorry I'm so late.
Tamaki: Don't you worry, Haruhi! We're determined to keep your secret. No one will find out that you're really a girl during tomorrow's physical exams. So please, promise you'll stay our beloved secret princess.
Haruhi: Sure.
Hikaru: You know what. I think both of us would be a little peeved if we had to watch all the guys flirt with her.
Kaoru: Then that settles it.
Tamaki: Listen up, squad members. At tomorrow's physical exams, position yourselves in formation A. And then wait for your orders.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Yes, sir.
Haruhi: I've got it. You guys are worried because if they find out I'm a girl, I can't be a host and therefore can't repay my debt. My balance is 5,333,332 yen. Well, guess I'll have to come up with another way to pay you back.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Do something. The subject doesn't appear to have any motivation.
Tamaki: Why do we get stuck with such a difficult heroine? Are you saying that you hate being a host? That you hate this club?
Haruhi: To be honest, I'd have to say yes. I mean you guys aren't bad. But If it gets out that I'm a girl, there's nothing I can do, you know?
Hikaru: She doesn't seem to care one way or the other.
Kaoru: Well before we do anything else, we have to find a way to motivate her.
Mori: Fancy tuna.
Tamaki: Oh that's right. You didn't get the chance to eat any during last episode's party, did you?
Hikaru: Did you hear that? She's never eaten fancy tuna before. Isn't that awful?
Kaoru: Wow, talk about a difficult childhood.
Honey: If only Haru-chan could stay in the host club, she'd have the chance to eat all kinds of yummy things whenever she wants.
Haruhi: What are you talking about? Don't be silly. Just because I'm poor and I've never had it doesn't mean I'm so much of a glutton that I'd go on fooling everyone about my gender just to try some fancy tuna... Am I really gonna get to try it?
Girl: We will begin conducting physical examinations shortly. All students, please proceed to the clinic in your respective school building.
Haruhi: So, what's the deal with this formation A thing you guys were talking about? What do they do during physical exams here at Ouran, anyway?
Hikaru: It's no different than a physical exam you'd get at any other school.
Kaoru: Yeah, why would a physical exam be any different for us just because we're rich?
Haruhi: You're right. I didn't think about it that way.
Doctors: Welcome, students.
Haruhi: W-what is all this?
Hikaru: Just another physical exam.
Kaoru: The usual.
Haruhi: The usual?
Nurse: Excuse me, Hitachiin brothers, please follow me this way to have your height measured.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Sure thing.
Nurse: Mr. Fujioka, I'm your nurse for the physical exams this afternoon.
Haruhi: Okay.
Nurse: Please, come this way.
Girl: Why are Honey and Mori dressed as doctors?
Girl: I don't know.
Haruhi: Honey senpai! Mori senpai! It's so obvious.
Kyoya: I've got those two for backup just in case something happens.
Haruhi: But why are they in doctor disguises?
Kyoya: They're just helping to set the mood. The disguises make our operation feel like a real espionage mission.
Doctor: Wow, Miss Shiramine, you've lost two whole kilo grams since this time last year.
Shiramine: It's so good to hear. I thought for sure I was heavier.
Doctor: Not at all. Keep it up and you'll be even healthier next year. Good work.
Haruhi: Don't you think it's weird that these doctors are all so jovial and nice?
Kyoya: They're chosen by the school's chairman. This may be a school, but it's also a business. Therefore, he wants to keep students happy. After all, most of the students that attend Ouran academy come from prominent families that have their own private doctors at home. So, this is just a formality.
Haruhi: These damn rich people.
Yabu: I'm terribly sorry.
Kyoya: No problem. Huh?
 Nurse: Hitachiin brothers, would you please come with me? We're ready to do your chest measurements. You can use the area behind this curtain to undress.
Hikaru: Doesn't matter to me.
Kaoru: We're not shy. Who needs a curtain?
Kyoya: See, Haruhi. A rather impressive turnout today. Physical exam day is quite popular with the ladies.
Haruhi: What's wrong with the girls at this school?
Hikaru: I won't allow it. It's just not fair. I won't let those doctors touch you, Kaoru.
Kaoru: What are you talking about? You don't seem to have a problem touching me when we play doctor at home. I can't get you to stop tickling me and toying with my body.
Honey: Come on, Haru-chan, this way.
Tamaki: I've been waiting for you, my princess.
Haruhi: Tamaki senpai.
Tamaki: You're so cute when you're surprised.
Nurse: Mr. Fujioka, it's time for us to take your chest measurements. Once you've finished disrobing, would you please come with me?
Girl: Haruhi is coming up now.
Tamaki: This is it. The inevitable moment has arrived. You just stay back here and wait, okay Haruhi?
Haruhi: But what are you gonna do?
Tamaki: Don't you worry. I'll protect you. I promise I'll protect you, Haruhi.
Nurse: Mr. Fujioka, are you ready to be measured now?
Tamaki: Yes. I'm Haruhi Fujioka.
Girl: Wait, that's Tamaki.
Girl: There's no denying it. That's definitely Tamaki.
Girl: Is he cosplaying as Haruhi?
Girl: What's going on? Is he trying to be funny?
Hikaru: I can't believe he actually did it.
Kaoru: They recognized him. I told you they'd see through it.
Tamaki: You jerks! You said there was no way the girls would be able to tell it was me.
Hikaru: It's payback for calling us the homosexual supporting cast.
Tamaki: I'm sorry. They figured it out.
Haruhi: Just as I thought. Tamaki sanpai lives in his own carefree little world.
Kyoya: Haruhi, ready? I went ahead and set up a separate room for you, a special boys' clinic. And I have a doctor standing by sworn to secrecy.
Hikaru: It turns out the doctors here today are all on staff at one of Kyoya senpai's family's hospitals.
Kaoru: Would've been nice if he had said something to us earlier.
Kyoya: I had to get my revenge too. I'm sorry. I just don't think I'm a supporting cast, homosexual or otherwise.
Girl: Is there something wrong?
Girl: Check it out. Tamaki is eroding away.
Girl: Oh wow.
Tamaki: Haruhi is... angry with me...
Doctor: Come in. Hello Mr. Fujioka. I've been made aware of your situation. If you wouldn't mind, please disrobe for me over there.
Haruhi: Sure.
Girl: I'm telling the truth! One of the doctors grabbed me by my shoulder. He was trying to make a pass at me. I've never been so terrified.
Girl: Wow, how scary.
GIrl: Do you think it was a pervert?
Kyoya: I had a feeling this might happen.
Honey: What do you mean?
Kyoya: A bit earlier today, I saw a strange man wearing a white lab coat, but clearly not one of our hospital's doctors. And I thought he was a little odd.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Shouldn't you have said something sooner?
Kyoya: Oh well, it's no big deal. I'm sure the security guard will catch him.
Man: Tell me, Miss. Did you happen to notice where the pervert doctor was headed?
Girl: Yes, sir, he ran off to the special boys' clinic.
Host club members: Haruhi!
Haruhi: Excuse me.
Yabu: No, it's not what you think. Please just keep quiet.
Tamaki: Haruhi! Tama-chan kick!
Hikaru and Kaoru: One... Good looks that attract the public eye.
Kyoya: Two... More wealth than you could imagine.
Mori: Three, chivalry that would never be able to overlook...
Honey: ...the hideous wickedness of this world.
Tamaki: That's what makes up the Ouran host club.
Host club members: We're here! Watch out!
Yabu: Please don't hurt me. Spare me my life.
I'm a doctor. I have a small emergency medical clinic that I run in the next town over. My name is Yabu.
Hikaru: Did he say his name is Yabu?
Kaoru: That's crazy. What a terrible name for a doctor.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Unless you're a quack.
Yabu: I know. I'm here because I was hoping to see my daughter. My wife left me last month and took my daughter with her. But I know that she attends school here.
Haruhi: I don't mean to pry or anything. But why did your wife and daughter leave you?
Yabu: Well, you see.
Yabu's wife: I'm sick of this! You let someone give you an IOU again? You promised us you wouldn't do that anymore.
Yabu: Don't worry, dear. I know this guy is good for it, we can trust him. Everything will be all right.
Yabu's daughter: I can't take this anymore! Dad, you never think about the welfare of our family.
Yabu's wife: I'm going home to Mother!
Yabu: No, please, wait! And that was it. They left me forever. I know I'm terrible at managing our money. And I can't say no to anybody. I don't blame them for being tired of constantly living in debt. But I wanted to see my daughter one more time, so I came here. After being pelted by rain and wandering the streets, I finally made it to your school. Once I entered, I was mistaken for a doctor here to examine students.
Hikaru: Well of course. You're wearing a lab coat.
Kaoru: Anyone would mistake you.
Yabu: And then it happened. Excuse me, Miss, I'm looking for my d--
When I tried to ask her about my daughter, the girl started screaming and before I knew it, there were all kinds of people chasing me!
Tamaki: That's so tragic!
Kyoya: Doctor Yabu, I think you may have the wrong place. Are you looking for Ourin public high school?
Yabu: Yeah, that's right.
Kyoya: I figured out that might be the case. This is Ouran academy, a private institution. Your daughter doesn't go to school here.
Hikaru: Man, that's pretty sad. You don't even know what school your daughter goes to?
Kaoru: I bed your relationship is messed up because you don't pay attention to her, not because of some stupid debt.
Honey: Wow, Kyo-chan, I'm impressed that you figured out he had the wrong school.
Kyoya: Well, there's no way the daughter of such a small time doctor would ever be able to get into Ouran academy.
Tamaki: Kyoya, would you please find a map of all the public school in this area? I'd like to help this man find his daughter.
Kyoya: Whatever you say.
Hikaru: Are you sure about this?
Kaoru: After all, even if he does manage to find his daughter, there's no guarantee she'll wanna speak to him.
Tamaki: Well then, that's something he'll have to find out for himself.
Haruhi: I'm sorry about this, you guys, but could you please leave?
Tamaki: Haruhi, are you still angry with me? You're not thinking of quitting the host club, are you?
Haruhi: Don't be stupid, senpai. I've just gotta finish my physical exam, as a male student, of course. Uh, but let me explain. I'm not doing this because you're bribing me with food. I'm doing it to pay back my debt.
Tamaki: You're so cute, Haruhi! I can see right through you. I know you're just after that fancy tuna. But it's so cute that you're pretending...
Haruhi: Cut it out, senpai. Hey, don't touch me there.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Red card!
Hikaru: Looks like Tamaki senpai...
Kaoru: ...is the real pervert.
Haruhi: Who cares? Would you guys just get out of here?
 Haruhi: Hey senpai, I heard a rumor there's another girl joining the host club. Is that true?
Tamaki: Don't act so surprised. I've heard that she's actually Kyoya's fiancee.
Haruhi: Next time, "Attack of the Lady Manager".
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Miyabi: I love you. And you're all I can think about, my darling. Let's spend the rest of our lives together, just the two of us.
Renge: Yes, Miyabi. I'm so happy.
Maid: Excuse me, Miss? The Master has returned home. Miss?
Renge's father: Renge? You certainly love those video games, don't you?
Renge: Is that so wrong?
Renge's father: No, not at all. I'm your father and I want you to feel free to live your life however you please. You know that I let you do anything you like. I've always promised you that freedom.
Renge: Yeah.
Did your business trip in Japan go well?
Renge's father: I think so. I had a lovely dinner meeting at the home of one of my clients when I was there. I made sure to get a photo. Take a look. They have a boy in high school who's about the same age as you.
Renge: He is the one. I'm going to marry the boy in this photo. Don't forget. You promised me that I could do whatever I want, Father.
Renge's father: But Renge...
Renge: I'm coming for you, my prince charming.
Renge's father: Renge. Renge!
 Haruhi: "Attack of the Lady Manager!"
 Girl: Oh Tamaki. My dearest Tamaki, why are you so beautiful?
Tamaki: I'm hoping to catch your eye even if for just one second.
Girl: Then why is your voice so very sweet and mellow?
Tamaki: To set your nerves at ease, so that my true feelings might reach your heart.
Girl: Why are your eyes filled with tears every time you look at me?
Tamaki: Because the side of your beautiful smile causes the fountain inside of me to start overflowing.
Girls: Oh, Tamaki.
Girl: I think it's adorable that you're wearing matching kimonos.
Hikaru: Our mother designed everything the hosts are wearing today. If you see something you like, we can take an order for you.
Kaoru: Our grandmother even helped us put them on.
Hikaru: But you know the only one who will be undressing you is me, Kaoru.
Kaoru: Hikaru, you're embarrassing me, in front of everybody.
Girl: Oh! What a tender embrace!
Haruhi: They're up to that nonsense again.
Girl: Haruhi! You look so cute in your kimono.
Girl: Almost like a girl.
Haruhi: Thanks.
Kyoya: Haruhi, you've booked another appointment. It seems you've had a pretty steady flow of new customers lately. Keep up the good work. I'm not going to charge you interest on your debt like I normally would. So keep this up, and you should be able to pay it off, although the rental fee on that kimono you're wearing is nothing to sneeze at.
Haruhi: He's like some kind of heartless tax collector...
Girl: Hello Kyoya, I can't get over how great you look in that kimono. Are you planning to release any more picture books of the host club?
Kyoya: Unfortunately, we don't have anything planned at present, ladies.
Hikaru: But doesn't the club make a lot of money?
Kaoru: From the sale of promotional items?
Kyoya: That's true. But the items are poor quality. Those picture books were full of nothing but amateur hidden camera shots. However, if we want to create some higher-quality, money-making products, I'm afraid we'd have to draw money from the school's budget.
Haruhi: If it wasn't for Kyoya, the host club would spiral into the depths of bankruptcy.
Honey: Haru-chan, Haru-chan, I don't know how, but I lost one of my sandals.
Haruhi: But you were just wearing them, weren't you?
Mori: Mitsukuni.
Honey: Takashi.
Mori: I noticed that you dropped it.
Honey: Takashi!
Girl: How sweet.
Girl: Isn't it, though.
Haruhi: Looks like tears are popular with the ladies today. But how are they all able to cry so easily?
Haruhi: What's this?
Hikaru: For your information, it's common for a host to use eye drops.
Kaoru: No woman alive can resist a man on the brink of tears.
Haruhi: That's cheating.
Hikaru: Oh, don't be such a party-pooper.
Kaoru: Here, Haruhi. This is for you.
Haruhi: It's for me?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Aren't you the cutest?
Girl: I didn't know you liked sweets, Haruhi.
Haruhi: Well, to be honest with you, I don't really. But, you know, I think it would be a nice memorial offering for my mother.
Tamaki: How admirable of you! Such devotion to your mother's memory. Please, Haruhi, take as many of these as you like.
Haruhi: Let me guess. The tears are fake.
Tamaki: How could you? My tears are always genuine, Haruhi. Being able to cry without the use of eye drops is the mark of a true host. Tell me. Do I impress you? Have you fallen for me yet?
Haruhi. You wish.
Tamaki: My romantic overtures do not seem to be reaching you for some reason. Perhaps I should add a little more panache to my character.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Looks like the host club has a brand-new guest.
Kaoru: Come on in. What are you waiting for?
Hikaru: Watching from afar is no fun.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Please, Miss.
Tamaki: Stop that. How many times do I have to tell you boys to be more courteous to our first-time guests. Please, you don't have to be afraid, my princess. I welcome you to the Ouran host club. Yes?
Renge: No! Don't touch me, you phony!
Tamaki: What do you mean I'm phony?
Renge: Just what I said. You're phony. I find it hard to believe that someone like you is the prince character of this host club! You shouldn't go spreading your love around so easily like that, you stupid! You must be a dim-witted narcissist! You're incompetent! You're a commoner. You're disgusting.
Hikaru: He's created a new technique.
Kaoru: One-man slow-motion.
Kyoya: I don't suppose you are...
Renge: It's you, Kyoya. Oh, how I longed to meet you. My one and only prince charming.
Hikaru: Your fiancee?
Kaoru: Kyoya senpai?
Renge: Of course. My name is Renge Hoshakuji, and I'm transferring into Ouran academy's 1st-year class A tomorrow.
Hikaru: Why is he sulking?
Kaoru: Because mommy was keeping a secret from daddy.
Kyoya: Whatever. Why does everyone insist on referring to us like we're husband and wife?
Renge: Oh this is a story of love at first sight. I couldn't resist the way you were adoring those flowers in the backyard when you thought no one else was looking. And how sweet it was when you reached out to that poor little injured kitten.
Hikaru and Kaoru: She serious?
Haruhi: Could you have the wrong person?
Renge: No way! I could recognize my love anywhere. He's a gentleman who's kind to everyone and doesn't ask for anything in return. He likes solitude, but in fact sometimes he gets lonely. He looks like the star of the popular dating sim, Uki-doki Memorial. You're my real-life Ichijo Miyabi.
Haruhi: Uki-
Honey: doki-
Tamaki: Otaku!
Hikaru: Otaku?
Kaoru: I've never seen one!
Kyoya: I get it now. You're in love with that character. You're projecting the love onto me, and you somehow deluded yourself into thinking that we're engaged. I assume this Miyabi character probably wears glasses as well.
Tamaki: So, she made it up. You're not really her fiance, right?
Kyoya: Well no, I don't remember ever asking for her hand in marriage. Besides this is the first time I've ever met the woman.
Renge: According to my research, I understand that you are in charge managing the club. Is that true, Kyoya?
Honey: That's right. Kyo-chan is our director.
Renge: You're the club's director? That's perfect. Oh wow, I've always wanted to wear a sandwich board to advertise a business.
Hikaru and Kaoru: We don't advertise. We're just a host club.
Renge: I've made up my mind. From now on, I'm gonna be the manager of this host club.
Tamaki: Um, listen, Kyoya.
Kyoya: Miss Hoshokuji is the only daughter of a very important Otori family client. So, please be polite and try not to offend her, all right?
Renge: Well, boys, I can't wait to work with you.
Tamaki: I thought about it a lot last night, and maybe having a lady manager isn't such a bad idea.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Why do you say that?
Tamaki: Well, it's fairly obvious, isn't it? Renge just transferred into the same class as Haruhi. So if Haruhi has a girlfriend around, it could bring out the female within her. Renge's girlish air of tenderness might be able to stimulate haruhi's own sense of femininity.
Haruhi: Good grief.
Tamaki: Now is our change to help Haruhi get in touch with her feminine side. This is an important project, men. She doesn't have any friends in class right now except for these two shady twins. That's not good for her.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Like you have room to talk.
Renge: Hey, everyone. You'd be happy to know that your new manager, Renge has baked all of you some cookies.
Tamaki: Oh, isn't she lady-like? I'm so moved by your generosity.
Renge: I didn't bake these cookies for you, you phony prince. I'm sorry, I burnt them a little bit. I did the best I could. And I already know what you're going to say.
Miyabi: Anything that you make for me is going to taste delicious, my dear.
Renge: Oh, you're always so sweet to me, Kyoya.
Honey: She wasn't kidding, these cookies really are burnt.
Mori: Don't eat that, Mitsukuni. It's bad for you.
Honey: Waah, she's scaring me!
Haruhi: They're not that bad at all. They've got a good flavor to them.
Hikaru: May I try?
Kaoru: Oh oh, Haruhi, you've got crumbs on your face.
Tamaki: Did you see what they just did? He took a bite--
Kyoya: And suddenly, the trio of classmates are closer than they've ever been before.
Haruhi: You know, you could've just told me and I would've wiped it off. And if you wanted to try one, they're plenty here.
Tamaki: That's not the way you're supposed to react, Haruhi. You have to stay strong and reject them, then casually brush them to the side. Do you understand?
Haruhi: This is sexual harassment, senpai.
Tamaki: Sexual harassment? If that counts as sexual harassment, then they're twice as guilty! Someone, call the police.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Cut it out, boss. We're sorry.
Honey: Renge-chan, Renge-chan, want some? It's milk.
Renge: Lukewarm.
Honey: Huh?
Renge: Every single one of you, except for Kyoya, all of your characters are lukewarm. Each of you needs to have some sort of dark side. You understand? Girls are vulnerable to handsome young men who are troubled. If you keep carrying on like this, it's only a matter of time before the girls get tired of you and stop coming all together. Are you trying to ruin my precious Kyoya's business? As your manager, it's my duty to change your character backgrounds. Let's start with you! If all you are is cute, inside and out, then you're no different to a baby. Therefore, from now on, you are the baby-faced thug. And Mori senpai, you're his childhood-friend, the flunky. The twins will be basketball players enslaved in their own world. Haruhi, you're an honor student who's constantly being bullied. And as for you, Tamaki, you're the school idol who's admired for your good looks but you actually have an inferiority complex you're hiding from the world. The lonely prince. And Kyoya, you're perfect just the way you are now. So I want you to stay as kind and affectionate as ever, 'kay?
Kyoya: Thank you, I'm honored.
Tamaki: The lonely prince. It's true. That title is perfect for me.
Haruhi: Yeah, right. She couldn't be farther from the truth.
Hikaru Come on, Kyoya senpai.
Kaoru: You've gotta do something.
Kyoya: Why? It seems like the boss is up for it.
Tamaki: How does this look, Renge? Do you think these poses work for a lonely prince?
Renge: Oh wow, you're pretty good at that, Tamaki. But you know it would be even more effective if you were standing in the rain.
Kyoya: Let's just wait to see how things turn out. I bet it will be interesting. It always is.
 Man: Get a strecher! Take him to the infirmary, immediately!
Hikaru: Kaoru, Kaoru, Kaoru.
Man: You've got to get back in the game, Hikaru. We need you.
Hikaru: Shut up!
Kaoru: Hikaru, listen to me. Please don't worry. There's nothing you can do. You can't share my pain. You are not the one who got hurt. Now, go on.
Hikaru: I can't. It hurts. It hurts, Kaoru.
Renge: Your pain is my pain. It doesn't matter to me if no one else understands. As long as we have each other, we can go on living.
Tamaki: I'm sorry but I'm envious. The way the two of you support each other like that.
Hikaru: But Suou senpai.
Kaoru: How can you be envious of us? You're the school's idol.
Tamaki: An idol, right. I hate that people all worship me for something so superficial as my appearance. I think it would be much better for me to be alone.
Renge: One lonely heart meets another. They pass each other, wounding one another. What are the hearts of these young men made of?
Honey: You can't run away forever. I'm gonna show you what happens to anyone that crosses me.
Mori: Don't do it, Mitsukuni. You should have realized by now that whenever you hurt others, you're really just hurting yourself.
Honey: I didn't ask you for any advice. You want me to put you over my knee again?
Renge: Will it be the light of salvation that ultimately awaits these boys? Or will it be something else?
Honey: You know, it really pisses me off when people don't know their place. I'm so sorry, Haru-chan! I can't do this any more!
Renge: Cut! Cut! Cut! Cut! What's wrong with you? You got to stick to the script.
Honey: But I can't.
Renge: Stop rolling, cameraman.
Cameraman: Yes, boss.
Renge: I want the rain to make things seem tragic.
Hikaru: How'd we go from changing our characters to shooting a movie about them?
Haruhi: And why is there an entire film crew here to shoot it?
Kyoya: Apparently, she flew them in from Hollywood. Don't you recognize the director? He directed the vampire movie, Millennial Snow. It was the No.1 grossing box-office hit in America last year.
Haruhi: Damn these rich people.
Hikaru: And another thing, how come this stupid script portrays Kaoru as the pitcher?
Kaoru: Yeah.
Haruhi: What does that mean?
Hikaru and Kaoru: If you don't now, never mind.
Haruhi: Pitcher?
Tamaki: Haruhi! So how was I? Did you like my performance?
Haruhi: It was pretty awesome. I'm surprised you were able to get into your character like that. You were really believable.
Tamaki: I've discovered a new darker side of myself. I'm stating thinking it might be a good idea to explore it.
Haruhi: Are you sure about that? Because I think you're fine just the way you are now, senpai.
Tamaki: You do? Well, if you say so, Haruhi.
Haruhi: If he gets in touch with his darker side, he'll be that much more trouble.
Renge: Hey, Haruhi! You're on!
Haruhi: Coming!
Renge: Over here. These two gentlemen have just agreed to make a special appearance in our film.
Man: In your film?
Man: What are you talking about?
Renge: After all, we're gonna need some tough guys for the big climax. That's when all of the club members come together to fight against the real villains at their school. According to this script, these two are from a wealthy family that got their wealth by being a part of the Japanese Mafia. Don't you think it's a brilliant casting choice?
Man: What's with this girl?
Man: Whatever my dad does has nothing to do with me!
Haruhi: Wait a minute, Renge.
Renge: Just come over here and wait for your cue.
Man: Hey, you think you can push me around? You don't even know me.
Haruhi: Watch out!
Renge: Are you okay, Haruhi?
Haruhi: That guy was right, Renge. You can't do that. If you judge people by their appearance you're stereotyping them, and you'll never see the person inside.
Renge: Um... I don't understand what you're trying to say.
Tamaki: What happened, Haruhi? So, which one of you jerks started this?
Man: Wait, Suou! It's not what you think. That girl started it. She was giving us a hard time.
Haruhi: He's telling the truth, senpai. It wasn't their fault. They were provoked.
Men: Let's get out of here.
Tamaki: Haruhi, are you in any pain?
Haruhi: Yeah, it's my contact.
Tamaki: Your contact?
Haruhi: Yeah, I guess it must've slipped out.
Tamaki: I see how it is. You're able to cry without using eye drops. So, you're a full-fledged host now.
Renge: You, you, please tell me you got that, Cameraman.
Cameraman: Yes, boss.
Renge: Other than Haruhi's contact falling out, that was an ideal final scene! All it needs now is a moving narration by my sweet Kyoya.
Cameraman: What'd you do to my camera?
Renge: Why? Is something wrong?
Kyoya: I'm terribly sorry, but I cannot allow there to be any record of a club member engaging in violence. I think it caused enough trouble around here, Renge. Please stop being such a pest.
Renge: A pest? But you're supposed to pat me on the head and told me not to worry. You're supposed to be kind and affectionate, Kyoya. Why are you acting so differently now? Tell me why.
Tamaki: Because that's not the real Kyoya.
Haruhi: Does it really matter? Who cares if Kyoya is a little different than you expected him to be. Take a good look at the person inside and get to know him little by little. It's a lot more fun that way.
Miyabi: Long time no see, Renge. Why are you so down? Come on, please smile for me. Today is going to be a beautiful day. After all, today you've learned a very important lesson that will help you live happily ever after. And I'm so glad that you finally understand. I think you're ready to move on to the next level, Renge.
Tamaki: Hello ladies, come on in.
Girl: I bought the video of that film you made.
Girl: I bought it too.
Girl: And so did I.
Tamaki: You did?
Girl: That scene in the rain was just phenomenal.
Girl: I love the lonely prince.
Girl: And the loving relationship between Hikaru and Kaoru was so sweet.
Girl: I want to see Honey acting like a thug again. He was so cute.
Girl: I couldn't get enough of Haruhi's poignant expressions.
Tamaki: Kyoya?
Kyoya: I may have broken the camera's lens, but the footage that we had already shot wasn't damaged. Naturally, I did cut out that one violent scene. Sales have been pretty good so far. That Hollywood film crew did a fantastic job. But then I guess that's to be expected.
Hikaru and Kaoru: So, is this what you meant by interesting?
Kyoya: It's best to have as much money as we can in the club's budget.
Haruhi: And just when did he start calculating all of this?
Renge: Good day, everyone.
Tamaki: Renge? But I thought you had gone back to France already.
Renge: I can't believe I didn't realize this sooner. It was so chivalrous of you to risk your life to protect me. I could feel the love when you lectured me about judging people. When you said it was fun to get to know people little by little, you were talking about me.
Haruhi: Yeah...
Renge: Come on, Haruhi. Let's go to my house and play some games together. I think it's time you got to know me better.
Haruhi: What?
Hikaru: Hey, Kyoya senpai.
Kaoru: You okay with that?
Kyoya: Why wouldn't I be? Everything Renge said is true.
Tamaki: No, it isn't.
Kyoya: But I thought you were the one who wanted her to have a female friend in the first place.
Tamaki: Well, yeah, a female companion. Not a girlfriend.
Renge: Come on, Haruhi. Let's go play it again.
Tamaki: No, wait. Don't take Haruhi from me.
 Hikaru: I'm so sick of your face!
Kaoru: Your haircut is stupid!
Hikaru: Sex pixie!
Hikaru: Sicko!
Tamaki: What's going on? What's up with Hikaru and Kaoru?
Haruhi: Next time, "The Twins Fight!".
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Kaoru: Do you remember the first time we played that game? It was so long ago.
Girl: Hey, you wanna make a snowman with me?
Hikaru: Which one of us are you talking to?
Girl: To both of you, silly.
Kaoru: There's nobody here named "Both of you".
Girl: Okay then, I'm talking to Hikaru and Kaoru.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh really? Which of us is Kaoru and which of us is Hikaru? Can you tell?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Let's all play the "which one is Hikaru?" game.
So, can you tell which one of us is Hikaru?
Girl: Well, it's hard to say.
Girl: You're identical.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Many ladies have tried to tell us apart, but so far none have succeeded.
Haruhi: That's the dumbest game I've ever heard of.
Hikaru and Kaoru: What? Have you got a problem with it, Haruhi?
Haruhi: Not really. I just don't understand why the two of you are so popular.
Hikaru and Kaoru: That's not very nice.
Hikaru: I'm disappointed.
Kaoru: Apparently, you don't understand the merits of having a pair of twins as members of the host club.
Hikaru: Listen up. Having a couple of good-looking guys with homosexual tendencies earns the club high points. It also helps that the two struggle between their attraction and their friendship.
Kaoru: And in our case, because we're twins, our relationship is taboo and therefore more intriguing.
Hikaru: And besides, who hasn't fantasized about twins? Having two loves is better than one, don't you think?
Kaoru: It's a young woman's romantic fantasy.
Girl: Well, um, yeah, you're right. I can't take it.
Tamaki: Hikaru, Kaoru! When I gave you control of the club's website, I did it so on one condition that you take it seriously.
Hikaru: We take our job very seriously, boss.
Kaoru: In fact, last night we worked on it till dawn.
Tamaki: Is this what you worked so hard to create?
Honey: You look great, Haru-chan.
Tamaki: Tell me when!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Huh?
Tamaki: When did you take naked pictures of Haruhi?
Hikaru: Yes, that pose is perfect...
Kaoru: ...and your expression is beautiful.
Hikaru: Once we're done with this shoot...
Kaoru: ...we'll let you have all the fancy tuna you want.
Hikaru: Fancy tuna...
Kaoru: ...as much as you want.
Tamaki: You bribed her, didn't you?
Hikaru and Kaoru: You're imagining things.
Hikaru: It's obvious that the photo's been altered.
Tamaki: It was photoshopped?
Hikaru: We did a pretty good job, huh?
Kaoru: We've got some major photoshopping talent.
Tamaki: You idiots! That's a waste of your skills! Have you no shame? But if you're going to do it anyway, can you photoshop her into this idol photo book? Hmm, please?
Hikaru: Don't be ridiculous, boss. Why don't you just...
Kaoru: ...ask her if she'd wear an outfit like one of those?
Tamaki: I never thought to ask her. What do you think about this, my dear?
Honey: What are you doing with that dress?
Girl: He looks so handsome.
Girl: Yeah, he does, but I have to agree with Tamaki. I'd love to see what Haruhi looked like if he dressed as a girl.
Girl: Oh, he's so cute. I'm sure he'd look great no matter what you put him in.
Haruhi: Now, cut it out. No more making weird pictures of me. You got that? Just what do you guys take me for, anyway?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Isn't that obvious? You're our toy.
 Haruhi: "The Twins Fight".
 Hikaru: As we were saying, in order to entertain oneself in this otherwise boring life...
Kaoru: ...one must find himself stimulating toys.
Haruhi: I am not your toy! Okay?
Nekozawa: You want a toy? Toys... toys... If you like toys, then you should come and visit my black magic club. We've opened a marketplace that boasts black magic items from across the globe. We're also holding mass around the clock. If you visit right now, I'll even throw in a free curse doll. You could have Belzenef as your free gift.
Haruhi: Why is he talking to us through a crack in the door?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Wait a second. Has that door always been there?
Kyoya: Nekozawa senpai likes to hide. He doesn't really care for brightly-lit places.
Tamaki: Don't get involved with that guy, Haruhi. If you do, you'll end up being cursed.
Haruhi: Do you have any basis for that?
Tamaki: Yes. It happened during final exams at the end of the last school year. Oooh, it's terrifying just to talk about it.
Girl: Good morning, Tamaki.
Tamaki: Good morning. On that fateful day, I accidentally stepped on that weirdo Nekozawa's cursed doll, Belzenef. Afterward, I took my exam and the entire test was written in some strange lettering. I looked at the others around me for help and I realized I knew none of them. I was all alone in a different dimension.
Honey: Scary!
Haruhi: Did that really happen to you?
Kyoya: That only happened because you were so scared you accidentally walked into the beginning Greek class and took their exam.
Tamaki: No! It was a curse! I know because three days later, I woke up and my legs were as heavy as lead! Just how do you explain that?
Kyoya: Your legs were heavy because you ran a marathon the day before, remember?
Nekozawa: You shouldn't underestimate the dark powers of Berzenef, the curse doll. All you have to do is write the name of someone you hate on his back, then that person is certain to come face to face with misfortune.
Hikaru: Wow, this guy really is dark, in more ways than one.
Kaoru: Supposedly he hates bright lights. I wonder what he'll think of this.
Nekozawa: You murderers!
Tamaki: How on earth could you do such a thing? Obviously the two of you don't know the true terror of black magic.
Hikaru: I am so bored.
Kaoru: Isn't there anything fun we can do around here?
Tamaki: My dignity as the club's leader is being ignored.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Hey, Haruhi, we've got a favor to ask you.
Haruhi: What is it?
Hikaru: The next time we get a day off...
Kaoru: ...can we come over here to your place to hang out?
Haruhi: Why would you want to do that?
Hikaru and Kaoru: We're curious. We want to see where you live.
Haruhi: No way.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Aw, pretty please?
Haruhi: No way. You guys are just gonna make fun of me.
Hikaru and Kaoru: No matter how much we beg you?
Haruhi: No way.
Tamaki: I too have been thinking that it's about time I pay my respects to our beloved Haruhi's family.
Haruhi: No way in hell, senpai.
Hikaru and Kaoru: We can settle this with a game. If you can't pick up which one of us is Hikaru, then your penalty will be the two of us coming over to your house later tonight.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Okay, so which one of us is Hikaru?
Haruhi: This one's Kaoru. This one's Hikaru.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh oh, you got it wrong.
Haruhi: No, I know I'm right. You guys may look alike. But you're very different.
Girl: How did you do that, Haruhi? Whenever they wear those hats to cover which way they part their hair, it's practically impossible to try and figure out which twin is Hikaru and which one is Kaoru.
Girl: How can you tell them apart?
Haruhi: Hmmm, oh, how do I put it? It's kind of difficult to explain, but Hikaru's speech and actions make him come across a little more mischievous than Kaoru.
Kaoru: I'm sorry, Hikaru. I don't mean to laugh.
Hikaru: Well, I don't see what's so funny. I'm honest, I speak my mind, and I don't hold back. It's sneaky people like Kaoru who are the trouble makers.
Kaoru: Don't turn this on me, Hikaru. After all, I'm the one who's always going along with all of your selfish games.
Hikaru: I may suggest them, but you are the one who really gets into them, Kaoru. If you hate it so much, then why don't you just stop?
Kaoru: Because I hate to see you make an ass of yourself in front of everyone. It was your idea to call Haruhi our toy, but I noticed you were quick to make a pass at her. Admit it, Hikaru. You're actually in love with Haruhi, aren't you?
Hikaru: Huh?
Tamaki: What?
Hikaru: You've got it all wrong, Kaoru! Man, you're such a freaking idiot.
Tamaki: Yeah, there are some things in this world that must never be said.
Hikaru: Why would I fall for her? I mean, she looks like a tanuki.
Tamaki: How dare you call her a raccoon dog? You're gonna pay for that!
Renge: Awesome, this is just perfect. Our beloved Haruhi is in the middle of a beautiful, yet poignant four-sided romantic relationship. And to make it even more exciting, two of Haruhi's admirers are twins torn apart by love. Just the thought of it could make me eat three bowls of rice.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh, butt out, otaku.
Renge: You guys are meanies. You shouldn't say something like that to your manager.
Tamaki: But, Renge, I thought you had a feeling for Haruhi, as well.
Renge: Oh, I do. But, I have no problem with Haruhi having a homosexual relationship on the side.
Haruhi: I'm confused. I thought you had decided to go back home to France, Renge.
Renge: Well, I was going to start up a host club of my own, but I don't think France is ready for a host club just yet.
Hikaru: Cut it out, already! You're the one who's always crawling into my bed. Talk about annoying.
Kaoru: I only do that 'cause you look like lonely. I wouldn't choose to sleep in your bed, you idiot.
HIkaru: Who are you calling an idiot? You're the one who sucks at math!
Kaoru: Oh yeah? Well you're failing your foreign language class, you big dummy.
Hikaru: The way you grind your teeth is definitely...
Kaoru: At least I don't toss and turn so much that I fall out of bed.
Hikaru: Sex pixie!
Kaoru: Sicko!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Your mama wears too much makeup! That's it. We're over.
Hikaru: Hey Haruhi. Good morning.
Haruhi: Hikaru, what in the world happened to your hair? Why is it dyed pink?
Hikaru: 'Cause pink suit me. Don't you think it's cute? From now on, I'm the pink haired twin. I didn't wanna be mistaken for that Kaoru for the rest of my life, you know.
Kaoru: Good morning, Haruhi.
Hikaru: So, Kaoru's the blue twin?
Kaoru: I was finally able to sleep all by myself last night. But I ended up having a nightmare. I dreamt that my stylist had dyed my hair pink. It was so garish and ridiculous looking I woke up screaming.
Hikaru and Kaoru: I'll have the A lunch. No, give me the B pasta and the D salad! I'll take the F capellini with the barbarie duck! Hold on, make it a foie gras in perigueux sauce! Stop copying me! Why don't you just leave me alone?
Haruhi: Amazing. Perfect unison even when fighting.
Tamaki: I was wondering what all the fuss was about. I can't believe the two of you are still fighting. You're a disgrace to the host club.
Boy: Hey, look who it is.
Girl: Oh, I love them.
Girl: I've never seen all them together like that.
Honey: We've had enough of this. You're both to blame for this fight. Hika-chan and Kao-chan, I want you to make up and go halfsies on this cake, 'kay? But I want to have a piece too. So I guess we're going to have to go thirdsies. We're not going to be able to split the strawberry on top, though. What should we do? Maybe I should just take it. After all, strawberry is all my favorite. Oh, I forgot to ask. Hika-chan, Kao-chan, do you like strawberries?
Mori: You're just making it worse. Leave them alone.
Tamaki: Oh, Haruhi! How do I expect to run into you in the dining hall?
Haruhi: I was worried about those two. So, I followed them here without even thinking. I always bring a box lunch and I was just gonna eat it in my classroom.
Tamaki: A boxed lunch?
Haruhi: Here, darling, your box lunch. I hope you're not too embarrassed but I decided to make it in a heart shape for you. I love you.
Tamaki: I don't care if my box lunch is in an embarrassing heart shape. I will eat it.
Kyoya: I have no idea what you're talking about. But it's evident that your fantasies are completely incoherent.
Hikaru: Haruhi, you wanna sit here with me?
Haruhi: Ah, okay.
Hikaru: So what's that? What'd you bring for lunch?
Haruhi: Yesterday's leftovers and a rolled omelet.
Hikaru: You wanna switch with me? I had to order something different than Kaoru, so I ended up with stuff I don't really like.
Haruhi: That's fine with me. This is really magnificent. I've never tried anything like this before.
Tamaki: Delicious. It's delicious, isn't it, Haruhi? I'm so glad you like it. I want you to eat like that every day. Well played, Hikaru. As a reward, I'd like to trade you my lunch for your box lunch.
Hikaru: No way.
Tamaki: Come on, trade with me.
Hikaru: Forget about it.
Kaoru: So, Haruhi, is that any good? How would you like to taste mine? Here. "Ah..."
Hikaru: Quit butting in. Get lost, Kaoru.
Haruhi: I think I'm gonna go eat in my classroom after all.
Kyoya: Looking at the numbers, if the situation isn't resolved, I'm afraid we're going to have to stop offering our brotherly love package. We're down one pair of loving brothers. Oh, Haruhi, I just want you to know there's no reason for you to feel responsible. Even though it was your tactless comment that started this whole feud between the twins in the first place, right?
Haruhi: Clearly, he blames me for this.
Honey: It's weird for Hika-chan and Kao-chan to be fighting like this. It's never happened before.
Haruhi They've never fought before?
Honey: I've known Hika-chan and Kao-chan since we were in pre-school. We weren't in the same year, so I never really got to talk to them. But I remember that the two of them always played together.
Tamaki: Yeah, that's true. I mean, I've only known the twin since they were in middle school, but they definitely stood out. It seemed like they kept everyone at a distance except each other. Believe it or not, they were even more warped back then. When you stop and think about it, maybe this fight is a good thing for them. Maybe it means that the twins are expanding their horizons a bit. We should just leave them alone and let them work it out.
Haruhi: Who knows? Maybe it is a turn for the better. But if this really is their first fight, they probably need someone to tell them when it's time to give in and call it quits. And if they've never fought before, would they even know how to make up?
Tamaki: Don't you guys think that maybe it's time you give up all this fighting? It's driving me insane.
Hikaru: What'd you say? It's driving you insane? You've gotta be kidding me. How do you think I feel right now? Every time I look in the mirror, I see his face. I'm sick and tired of constantly being mistaken for you, Kaoru! The truth is I hate your guts!
Kaoru: You took the words right out of my mouth. In fact, I hate you so much I bought this, Belzenef, the curse doll. I'm going to complete the curse, Hikaru. I'm going to write your name on his back. From this day forward, you're going to experience nothing but misfortune and sorrow!
Haruhi: Would you guys knock it off? What do you think you're doing? You don't bring something like this into a petty fight. Both of you are at fault here but what's really sad is that you brought everyone else around you into your big mess! Now apologize to each other! If you don't make up right now, I'll never let you come over to my house. Have I made myself clear?
Hikaru and Kaoru: So then what you're saying, Haruhi, is that if we make up, we can come over to your place?
Hikaru: I'm so sorry, Kaoru. Even though I was just following our script, I said such awful things to you. I'm not fit to be your brother.
Kaoru: Don't say that, Hikaru. I was so worried. I couldn't live with myself if I ever thought I had hurt you.
Hikaru: Kaoru, I'll never let you go again.
Kaoru: Hikaru.
Honey: You gotta be kidding. You mean you guys were faking it this whole time?
Hikaru and Kaoru: We didn't have anything else to do. We were bored.
Haruhi: They totally fooled me.
Tamaki: Twins with too much time on their hands... are the devil.
Girl: I'm so glad they made up.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Okay, it's time to play the "which one is Hikaru" game.
Girl: I know, the twin with the pink hair is Hikaru.
Hikaru and Kaoru: We have a winner!
Girl: So are you two gonna keep your wild hair color even though you've made up? It's much easier to tell the two of you apart now.
Haruhi: No, it isn't. Today, the pink one is Kaoru, and Hikaru's the blue one. You swapped colors for today, huh?
Kaoru: Do you realize what's happened, Hikaru? Until now, there were only two groups of people, "us" and "everyone else." But for the first time, someone's crossed into our world.
 Tamaki: Rejoice, Haruhi. You're going to have an underclassman. Someone new wants to join the club.
Haruhi: But he's in elementary school.
Tamaki: I wonder what he'll be like all grown up.
Haruhi: Next time, "The Grade School Host is the Naughty Type!"
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Teacher: Oh, there you are Shiro. The rest of the club has assembled and ready to go. You should get to the music room.
Shiro: I'm sorry sir, but I'm quitting the classical music club.
Teacher: Huh? What made you decide to quit all of a sudden? I think you have a natural talent for the piano. It'd be a shame to waste it. So forget about quitting and come back to the club. If you play piano, you're sure to be popular with all the ladies.
Shiro: But that's gonna take too long!
Teacher: Huh?
Shiro: I don't have that much time!
The top floor of the south building... at the end of the north hallway... in [a/the] music room that's never used. This is it. This is the place.
Host club members: Welcome to the Ouran host club.
Hikaru: Oh, it's just a kid.
Kaoru: Not only that, it's just a boy.
Tamaki: What's wrong, little boy? Did you come to my palace in search of something?
Shiro: Are you the king of this place?
Tamaki: Ah.
Shiro: Well are you?
Tamaki: Come closer, lost one. What was it you just called me, little boy?
Shiro: The king.
Tamaki: Oh, the king! Yes, I am the king of the Ouran host club. Long live the host king!
Shiro: I'm an elementary 5th-year, Shiro Takaoji! I want the host club king to take me on as an apprentice.
 "The Grade School Host is the Naughty Type!"
 Girl: Oh my, Tamaki, you have an apprentice?
Tamaki: Yes. He's still in elementary school, but I like the fire in his eyes.
Girl: But are you sure it's okay for such a young boy to become a host?
Tamaki: Why wouldn't it be? Love has nothing to do with age. Take us for instance. Whenever I look at you, my heart starts pounding. Suddenly I feel no different than a love-sick little boy.
Girl: Oh, Tamaki.
Haruhi: Don't you think it's weird he's making the kid observe him up close like that?
Kyoya: There is a theory that people are considered more beautiful, the closer they're viewed. Tamaki seems to live by that theory. Well let's leave them alone.
Tamaki: You naughty girl, you've drawn me to the forbidden fruit. Dearest, you're the mermaid who's brought light into my lonely sea. My mermaid princess.
Girl: I remind you of a mermaid?
Shiro: You look more like the carp that swim in my pond at home. I'd never give false compliments like that.
Girl: Carp!?
Tamaki: Oh don't listen to him. He's just a kid. You know how kids are. They can't help but be honest.
Girl: Honest!?
Tamaki: But that's just his opinion and I wouldn't say you look like a carp. And even if you did look like a carp, you'd be the most beautiful carp of them all...
Girl: So I am a carp!
Tamaki: Uh no... that's not what I meant...
Girl: Tamaki, you're an idiot!
Tamaki: No wait, mermaid princess!
Shiro: Man, what a crybaby.
Hikaru: So how's it going, boss? That's an adorable little apprentice you got there.
Kaoru: Hikaru, do you wish you had a little brother like Shiro?
Hikaru: Don't be silly. I could search the globe and I'd never find a better brother than you, Kaoru.
Kaoru: Hikaru.
Girl: Look, they're doing it.
Girl: Forbidden brotherly love.
Shiro: They're homos! And they're brothers! That makes them totally "insectuous".
Tamaki: I think what you meant to say was incestuous.
Honey: Hey Shiro-chan! You wanna have a piece of cake with me? We've got three kinds, chocolate, strawberry, and lime.
Shiro: Hey back off! What grade are you in anyway? Why are you wearing a high school uniform?
Mori: Something wrong, Mitsukuni?
Shiro: That's not fair! A little kid like you isn't supposed to have a cool older friend like him!
Haruhi: Are you all right? I know. It's kind of hard getting used to all the weirdos around here. It took me a while to get adjusted to all the craziness. So don't freak out. I'm sure you'll get used to it.
Shiro: This one kinda acts like a girl.
Haruhi: Something wrong?
Shiro: Are you a cross dresser?
Tamaki, Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh no!
Tamaki: 'Kay, that's enough. I think Shiro should take care of the tea for us, don't you?
Kaoru: Wow Haruhi, you're looking extra manly today.
Hikaru: Now do what the boss says and let Shiro take care of that tea set. It's part of his training. You're too macho for tea sets.
Tamaki: This kid is smarter than I thought.
Hikaru and Kaoru: He may be a kid, but he's got quite an eye.
Haruhi: Now be careful with it. It's pretty heavy.
Shiro: It's not my fault I dropped it. It's you fault because you're the one who made me take it in the first place.
Haruhi: Say what?
Kyoya: Haruhi, that's another 100,000 yen.
Shiro: Hey, you should make the cross dresser do all your stupid chores! I'm not here to carry tea sets! I'm here to learn how to make women happy!
Tamaki: You won't get anywhere with that attitude. And I am not going to let you disrespect Haruhi! So... put this brat in isolation!
Hikaru and Kaoru: You got it, boss.
Shiro: What's going on here!? Why'd you put me in a cage all of a sudden!?
Haruhi: Yeah, where did it come from? This is supposed to be a music room, right?
Shiro: This is no way to treat your loyal apprentice! Now let me out of this cage!
Tamaki: Not until you've learned your lesson. I made you my apprentice because I thought you were serious about becoming a host, but I guess I was wrong.
Shiro: I am serious! Totally serious! I want you to teach me how to make a woman happy. I'm gonna run out of time. Please won't you teach me? You're a host because you like girls. You like bringing a smile to a girl's face. That's why you do it, right? Please won't you teach me to be like you. You're a genius at it! You're the king!
Tamaki: Well, you may be a brat, but I admire your desire to become a host, so I'll teach you. You know, Shiro, you and I are so much alike.
Haruhi: You poor kid.
Shiro: Then, you'll help me become the kind of host that can make any women happy?
Tamaki: Of course. Making women happy is the sole purpose of being a host. If this is what you really want, Shiro, then you'll have to figure out how to use the material you already have.
Shiro: What does that mean?
Kyoya: You see, here at the Ouran host club, our policy is to use our individual personality traits to meet the needs of our guests. For example, there's Tamaki, who is the princely type. There's the strong silent type. The boy-Lolita type. The little-devil type. And the cool type. It's all about variety. And now our group is complete with the addition of Haruhi, the natural.
Haruhi: The natural?
Kyoya: It would seem that right now we have a perfect blend of characteristics, so it's going to be difficult to find a new type for Shiro.
Hikaru: If you go by his age, he should be the boy-lolita type.
Kaoru: But Honey senpai's already got that covered.
Honey: Is he going to replace me?
Renge: Oh come on! Is that all you got?
Haruhi: What's up with this place? It's supposed to be a music room.
Renge: Sorry to interrupt gentlemen, but what's with the lackluster character analysis? I must say I'm quite disappointed. I thought I taught you better.
Tamaki: All right then Miss manager, how would you work Shiro into our collection of characters? He can't be the boy-lolita because Honey's already got that covered.
Renge: You just don't get it, do you? Now listen up! There are plenty of girls out there who have a thing for younger boys or boys with baby faces. These girls would be considered Shota fans. Now Shota can be a very broad category. So it's important to know that the genre can be broken down into many different smaller sub-categories. For example, Shota fans with an interest in lolita boys would favor a boy like Haninozuka senpai. But this little boy is different. If I had to pick a character for him... Yes! He'd be the naughty boy type without a doubt!
Shiro: The naughty type?
Renge: Now to play up the naughty type, you have to wear shorts. Okay. You gotta have bumps and bruises! Give him a couple of scars! Run like a spoiled child! Make it reckless. Now I want you to trip and make it big!
Shiro: Ah!
Renge: Are you okay, little boy? Now, give 'em your catch phrase!
Shiro: No big deal. It was nothing.
Renge: Oh, that was perfect! Absolutely perfect, Shiro!
Tamaki: That was outstanding. I never knew you were such a great coach, Renge.
Renge: Ohohohoho!
Shiro: They're idiots. They're all a bunch of idiots. I've had enough of you people! This is so stupid! None of this is ever gonna help me make her happy.
Haruhi: Who's her?
Tamaki: Wait, Shiro. We haven't taught you how to apply the techniques you've learned yet!
Renge: I swear younger boys are good for nothing. I went to all that trouble to coach him. And he quits.
Tamaki: I can't believe he ditched us because he didn't like the lesson. What a selfish little brat.
Haruhi: There aren't many people who would enjoy that kind of lesson. But never mind that. Were you listening to what he said?
Shiro: I'm gonna run out of time. Please won't you teach me?
Haruhi: He said he was gonna run out of time. What do you think he means by that? I think that, maybe, it's a girl.
 Haruhi: How did we let them talk us into this?
Honey: It'll be okay, Haru-chan. It was so easy to sneak in. And wearing this uniform, I really look like I'm in elementary school.
Haruhi: Yeah, you do. I can understand why they wanted you to wear an elementary school uniform. I mean we are sneaking into an elementary school. And you totally fit in, senpai. But what I don't understand is why they made me to dress up in this middle school uniform.
Tamaki: All right men, it's time to initiate our mission.
Haruhi: What do you mean?
Honey: What mission?
Tamaki: I've assessed the situation. We'll infiltrate the elementary school. You two are going in.
Haruhi and Honey: But where are we going?
Haruhi: Why did we even bother with disguises? We stick out like a sore thumb.
Tamaki: Oh there's a reason, a damn good reason.
Honey: This way, Haru-Chan!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Isn't she the cutest?
Tamaki: Ah, look at her in that mini skirt. Haruhi looks like a little doll!
Kyoya: So basically you just wanted to see her dressed up like that.
Honey: This is it. Shiro-chan's classroom. When I was in elementary school, this was my classroom too!
Haruhi: There's nobody here.
Tamaki: So the kid's classroom is empty, isn't it?
Hikaru and Kaoru: This sure takes me back.
Kaoru: I wonder if doodles are still on my desk.
Kyoya: Doubtful. The school changes out the desks every year.
Hikaru: Let's check out the cafeteria after this.
Kaoru: I want to see the old gym.
Tamaki: Good idea, Kaoru.
Haruhi: Hey, if you're just gonna barge in here like that, then why are we wearing these stupid disguises?
Hikaru: Don't worry about it.
Kaoru: There's no one here to catch us. If the teacher finds us...
Hikaru: ...we'll have a hard time explaining why we snuck in.
Haruhi: Shh, shut up guys. Just keep your lip zipped.
Tamaki, Hikaru and Kaoru: Haruhi is the cutest thing I've ever seen!
Haruhi: It's all right. He's gone. But you guys, we came here to get the scoop on Shiro. So what do you think we should do now?
Kyoya: Well, here's something interesting.
Haruhi: What'd you find? Hey, that's Shiro.
Kyoya: So, he's in the classical music club.
Haruhi: He looks like he's enjoying himself. It's nice to see him with a smile on his face. I had no idea he looked so sweet.
Tamaki: Yeah.
Honey: There he is. There's Shiro-chan
Hina: Excuse me, Takaoji? I'm sorry but have you been practicing the new piece Teacher gave us?
Shiro: The new piece? Not really.
Hina: If you want, I can show it to you. Do you wanna come play with me?
Shiro: No, thanks. You go ahead. After all, there's only one grand piano. You should use it, Kamishiro.
Hina: Thank you! I will then. And if you want to join me, just let me know.
Tamaki: Pardon me, mademoiselle. I've never seen a rose more lovely than you, my dear. Here, this is for you. I was wondering if you could tell me anything about that young lady playing the piano. Do you know her?
Girl: That's Hina Kamishiro.
Tamaki: Her name is Hina?
Girl: That's right, but you better not fall in love with her.
Tamaki: Why?
Girl: Didn't you know? Hina has to move away soon. Her dad just got a new job in Germany. So they have to move there at the end of the week.
Shiro: What do you think you're doing!? I want you idiots to leave immediately! Put me down! What are you doing?! Let me go! Just put me down!
Tamaki: It's time to go, gentlemen. Quit thrashing around.
Shiro: Put me down!
What is your problem, you big idiot!?
Tamaki: I'm sorry but you're the idiot! You said that you wanted me to teach you how to make women happy. But that's not it, is it? You're not concerned with the happiness of just any woman. You've got your sights set on one woman in particular. You only care about one, and that's Hina Kamishiro! But I'm afraid, there's nothing I can do to help you with that. Listen, Shiro. I know that I told you it's the job of a host to make women happy. But when you care for someone, you must find the courage to express what is in your heart! You have to tell her how you feel about her! You didn't come to me looking to become a full-fledged host. You want to be a full-fledged man.
Shiro: It doesn't matter anymore. I've run out of time. I just... I wanted to hear her play before she left for good. That's all.
Tamaki: That piece she played, it's Mozart's sonata in D major for two pianos, isn't it?
Haruhi: Wait a minute. Since when is there a grand piano in here?
Kaoru: Well this is a music room, after all.
Hikaru: So why wouldn't it have a grand piano?
Kyoya: It is a music room, after all.
Mori: It is a music room.
Honey: It's always been there. We've just had it covered up.
Shiro: Awesome.
Hina: Hey Takaoji, I noticed that you're always listening to me when I'm playing. Do you like the piano? If so, then why don't we learn to play together?
Shiro: She played beautifully, but it wasn't the piano that I liked.
Tamaki: For the next week you will spend your mornings, lunches, recesses, and free time after school in piano lessons with me.
Shiro: But why?
Tamaki: You wanted to be my apprentice, right? Besides, that young lady looked like she wanted nothing more than to play the piano with you.
Host club members: Welcome princess. We've been waiting.
Tamaki: I present to you Shiro Takaoji's piano recital. If you please, princess.
Shiro: Let's play together, Hina.
Hina: Okay!
Tamaki: We did a good thing.
Haruhi: He loves with all his heart. So I guess that's one more way Shiro takes after you, huh senapi?
Tamaki: Why yes, I'd say so.
Haruhi: So you've been exchanging e-mails with Hina everyday now that she's in Germany?
Shiro: Yeah, more or less. I like her, but she can get pretty jealous for an elementary school girl. She'd be upset if she knew I was with you ladies, so let's keep this our little secret.
Girls: Oh! Oh, isn't he the cutest? ...so lucky. I wish I had a brother just like him.
Girl: Naughty boys are the best.
Girl: I could kiss you.
Tamaki: You brat, what are you doing?! Those are my guests!
Shiro: Well, it looks like they've found someone they like better. It's so easy to steal your customers. I think there's a new host king in town.
Tamaki: Gaaah!
Kaoru: I thought he'd make it through without exploding this time.
Hikaru: We should have known he was going to blow up sooner or later.
Haruhi: Shiro really does have a lot in common with Tamaki senpai. I get the feeling that Senpai was also a spoiled brat when he was a kid.
Tamaki: I was not a spoiled brat! I was nothing like him when I was a kid! I was a sweet, innocent, precocious adorable child! Do you hear me!?
 Hikaru: All right, we're headed to the pool!
Kaoru: We'll finally get to see Haruhi in a swimsuit!
Haruhi: Oh, no! Hunny-Sempi's being pulled away by the current! Next time, "Jungle Pool SOS".
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you!
Host club members: We'll see you then!
Haruhi: Wait a minute. Am I dreaming? We're in Japan, right? And Japan is not really known for its tropical locals.
Tamaki: Behold, Haruhi. Bask in the beauty of tropical birds. Aren't they breathtaking? I wonder what they're called.
Haruhi: Um, where was the exit, again?
Tamaki: Try to make the most of this down time and just relax. We're so worried about keeping our good looks day and night. We deserve a little vacation.
Haruhi: Personally I think this is pointless and a waste of time, so can I go home now? I should really be studying and I've got ton of laundry to do today. Senpai, where are we, anyway?
Kaoru: Target.
Hikaru: Captured.
Haruhi: Wait. What the...
Tamaki: Good work, now take her with you.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Roger!
Haruhi: Hold on. Where are we going?
Kyoya: This place is a brand new theme park that my family, the Otori group runs. It's called the Tropical Aqua Garden.
Haruhi: I don't understand. I thought the Otori group ran hospitals and that they're focused on the medical business, Kyoya senpai.
Kyoya: Yes, but my family likes to diversify and try different things. Besides this place could be classified as a healing facility. It's therapeutic. Think of all the people who are overworked and would just love a vacation in the south tropics. However, they may not be able to get the time off or they may not be able to afford it. Those people can now seek refuge here at this theme park and reduce their stress levels. The Otori group's primary concern has always been for the good health and well-being of the general public.
Haruhi: It sounds suspicious to me.
Kyoya: The park doesn't officially open until next month, but the host club was given a special advance invitation.
Tamaki: This is so relaxing. We don't have to worry about keeping all of our guests entertained for once. It's truly like a holiday for handsome young soldiers. I guess that's what you call it.
 Haruhi: "Jungle Pool SOS"
 Honey: Haru-chan. Wanna share some coconut juice with me? Or do you want to try a piece of mango cake?
Haruhi: Yeah, sure, I'll have some coconut juice with you.
Kaoru: Haruhi, you wanna go check out the water slide?
Hikaru: Hang on, what's the deal with that pullover you're wearing?
Haruhi: Oh, this thing?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Here, do what you got to do.
Maid: Okay, we'll do what we can.
Maid: Miss Fujioka, just follow me.
Haruhi: But why? Hold on! What are you doing? Hey, stop that.
Maid: We've been asked to help you choose a swimsuit.
Hikaru: We brought all of our mother's latest designs for you to choose from. Just pick whichever one you want.
Maids: Are you ready, Miss Fujioka? It's time to pick one.
Haruhi: Thanks, but I don't need a swimsuit.
Maid: Why don't you let me select one for you?
Haruhi: No, not that one. I don't want a bikini.
Maid: But you'd look so good in this one.
Haruhi: No, wait.
Maid: I bet this one would be cute.
Haruhi: But that's nothing more than a couple of strings.
Haruhi Senpai?
Tamaki: Just hurry up and put it on. A proper young woman should not show that much skin until after she's married.
Hikaru: So, you're not going to swim?
Kaoru: Hold on, you do swim, don't you?
Haruhi: I can swim just as good as the next guy, but this isn't my idea of fun. I'm not that big on water parks. We're just gonna spend all day goofing off. Honestly I'd rather be at home. I don't understand what's great about this place, anyway? I mean all you really need to play in the water is a plastic pool.
Hikaru and Kaoru: A plastic pool? What's that?
Haruhi: Let's see... I guess they're about this big, round, and to use it, you have to pump it full of air.
Hikaru: You dunce.
Kaoru: That's an inflatable boat, dummy.
Hikaru: There's no way something that small could be used as a pool.
Kaoru: Yeah.
Haruhi: Guys, it's a small pool. Haven't you ever seen little kids playing in one?
Tamaki: You idiots! If Haruhi thinks it's a pool, then it's a pool. Got it? Don't go embarrassing her. She can't help it if she's an ignorant commoner.
Hikaru and Kaoru: So, are we supposed to lie to her? Is that what you want?
Haruhi: I can't help but feel like I should be offended by that comment.
Hikaru: Never mind that, we've got a question for you.
Kaoru: Why did you make Haruhi put on that yellow monstrosity?
Tamaki: Gulp.
Hikaru: I would've thought for sure that you would be all...
Tamaki: I wanna see Haruhi in a swimsuit!
Hikaru: Not making her cover up like that.
Kaoru: It was surprising.
Hikaru and Kaoru: I know what he's up to. He made Haruhi cover up because he didn't want anyone else to see her in a bathing suit. Do you really think that's it? He must be one of those jealous pervert types. That's pretty twisted.
Tamaki: That's not it at all. I was just trying to protect her innocence as any father or guardian would. After all even if she's wearing a swimsuit, it is not decent for a lady to walk around half naked in front of boys.
Honey: Haru-chan. Let's play! You wanna go swimming in the current pool with me?
Haruhi: Nah, I'm not gonna swim today. Hold on, you know how to swim. Do you still need that float?
Honey: Mm-mm. Just looks cuter this way, you know? Prancing, prancing.
Haruhi: You're right. Those bunnies are pretty cute.
Hikaru and Kaoru: He's so innocent.
Renge; No way! You got it all wrong.
Haruhi: Is that Renge?
How did she do that? It's like that rig follows us.
Hikaru: That outfit is pretty impressive.
Kaoru: What's with the tattoo on your stomach?
Renge: Oh, that? You don't recognize it? I'm cosplaying.
Hikaru: Yeah, who?
Renge: La-La.
Kaoru: La-La? Like the manga magazine?
Renge: Her petite and slender frame. Her blue eyes that light up young men's faces. Her singing voice. La. I am Quon Kisaragi.
Haruhi: I wouldn't have guessed.
Tamaki: I had no idea who you're supposed to be.
Hikaru: Hey, boss, are you sure it's okay for Renge to be dressed...
Kaoru: ...like that?
Tamaki: Well, yeah that's okay.
Hikaru and Kaoru: And why is that?
Tamaki: Because it's cosplay, I guess.
Renge: Listen up, boys! Obviously you need help understanding Haninozuka's hidden motives. Look!
Honey: Takashi!
Tamaki: What are you talking about?
Renge: Think about what he said to you earlier.
Honey: Just looks cuter this way, you know?
Renge: He's not being as sweet and innocent as you think.
Kyoya: I agree. Try putting a word, "I" at the beginning of that sentence.
Honey: Just looks cuter this way, you know? I look cute.
Tamaki, Haruhi, Hikaru and Kaoru: He planned that!?
Renge: That's Haninozuka for you. In the last episode, he felt threatened by another loli boy type, so he's taking steps to keep his rank. I should give him more credit. He's a lot smarter than I thought.
Honey: Hey, look at this, everybody! Check it out! Look! Even though we're swimming really fast, we never go any further than we are now.
Tamaki: So, what's up with him?
Haruhi: Could he really be that smart?
Hikaru: I gotcha.
Kaoru: Come on, boss. Let's go. Let's have a water gun fight.
Hikaru: It'll be me and Kaoru against you. If you get it in the face, you lose. What do you say?
Tamaki: Forget it. Why would I want to subject myself to a childish game like that?
Hikaru: Haruhi, I think it's time that we got married.
Kaoru: Then we'll honeymoon in Atami.
Tamaki: Do you really think I'd ever let Haruhi marry you guys? Daddy says no!
Haruhi: Taking a break, huh? You want something to drink?
Mori: Yeah, thanks.
Tamaki: I'll get you guys! Sideways-leaping shot, go!! That's cheating!
Haruhi: Honey senpai!
Mori: Mitsukuni!
Haruhi: Mori senpai?
Tamaki: Gentlemen, we're going after Honey senpai! That pool looks like the quickest way! Charge!
Kyoya: Wait! I wouldn't go...
Host club members: There are alligators in there!
Tamaki: Okay, so we can't choose that pool! Then let's try this way next!
Hikaru and Kaoru: They're here, too!
Haruhi: And here!
Haruhi What's with all the alligators?
Tamaki: Beats me.
Kyoya: Those alligators belong to the park's tropical animals exhibit. I guess it is kind of dangerous to let them run wild. Though, the cause of our present situation seems to be the location of the switch for the current pool. I'll have to have a little chat with our designers. Thanks a lot, you guys. I got some great data today.
Host club members: You what!?
Kyoya: This is a map of the Tropical Aqua Garden. This is our current location. We need to get here. I have a feeling that's where Honey senpai probably ended up. It might be tough because to get there, we'll have to make it through this jungle area, here in the southern block. Distance wise we're talking about 800 meters.
Haruhi: Looks like there are a lot of undeveloped areas. Any idea what might be lurking in those parts of the jungle?
Kyoya: Since they're still being developed, I'm afraid I don't know.
Hikaru: Whatever's out there could be even more dangerous...
Koaru: ...than alligators.
Tamaki: All right! Now, this is a mission of survival! I know we can make it through the treacherous jungle in one piece. It is our sworn duty to save Honey senpai!
 Tamaki: Wow, this place is just like a real jungle, huh?
Haruhi: Yeah, and I keep hearing all these really strange animal calls.
Hikaru: You don't think that all those animal sounds...
Kaoru: ...could belong to the real thing, do you?
Kyoya: To be honest, I'm not sure. But I do know that my family always strives for authenticity whatever the cost.
Haruhi: Mori senpai is always so straight-faced. I can never tell what he's thinking. But even though he's doing a good job of staying calm, I'm sure he's worried.
Hikaru: Mori senpai is...
Kaoru: ...acting as clumsy as you do, boss.
Tamaki: Shut up!
Haruhi: Just as I thought. He is worried.
Kyoya: Uh oh, it's about time for the squall.
Hikaru: Hey Mori senpai, you seem to be really close to Honey senpai. Are the two of you like childhood friends?
Hikaru: You mean you don't know...
Kaoru: ...that they're cousins?
Haruhi: You're kidding me. They're related?
Kyoya: The Morinozukas have been serving the Haninozuka family for generations.
Hikaru: However, two generations ago, the families became relatives by marriage and the master-servant relationship soon became a thing of the past.
Kaoru: But even so, Mori senpai has always made a point to accompany Honey senpai.
Tamaki: Must really get his blood going. The blood of a loyal servant flows like a mighty river through Mori senpai's vein.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Such a beautiful story! I'm touched!
Haruhi: I don't know if I call it a beautiful story. I'm not sure I understand all this blood and loyalty business. But it's obvious that Mori senpai thinks an awful lot of Honey senpai. Hey Mori senpai, it's gonna be all right. I'm sure that Honey senpai is safe. He's a lot tougher than you might think he is, and if he gets hungry, the trees are full of bananas.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Bananas?
Tamaki: What's he going to say?
Mori: You're right.
Tamaki: Don't tell me Mori senpai is after my spot as Haruhi's daddy!
Hikaru: Nobody wants that spot but you boss.
Kaoru: That's kinda creepy, when you think about it.
Tamaki: What? Who're you calling creepy?
Kyoya: Hello, it's me. Well, we've had an incident that's caused some trouble.
Hikaru and Kaoru: You're a big-o pervert.
Tamaki: Shut up! I'm not a perv.
Haruhi: Mori senpai, you're going the wrong way. Honey senpai was headed in the opposite direction.
Mori: You're wrong. He went this way.
Haruhi: Hey, wait up! It's too dangerous to go alone! I'm coming with you!
Mori: Haruhi.
Haruhi: That's the first time he's ever called me by my name.
Kyoya: Yes, at once, please.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Senpai's a perv for Haruhi. Senpai's a perv for Haruhi.
Kyoya: My family's private police force is going to send in a search and rescue team to help us. They're better equipped to find Honey senpai than we are. So let's just go back to the gate and wait there. Hey, where are Mori and Haruhi?
Police force: Immediate emergency mobilization order. I'll repeat. Immediate emergency mobilization order. Master Kyoya's friend has gone missing near the wave pool. Our search target is a small young man. Orders are to eliminate any suspicious figures. Show them no mercy. Repeat. Eliminate any suspicious figures. Show them no mercy.
Police force: Target confirmed.
Police force: The target has been captured by a suspicious man. We'll take the target into custody.
Kyoya: You know, I don't believe I mentioned to them that there're other visitors here. Oh, well.
Police force: You there! Put the boy down immediately! If you refuse, we'll remove him forcefully!
Haruhi: Oh, hold on!
Police force: The suspect is resisting! Prepare to fire warning shots!
Honey: Takashi, Haru-chan, out of the way!
Police force: Hey, what do you think you're doing, pipsqueak?
Honey: You guys should be more careful who you mess with. Picking on my friends is bad. Got it?
Tamaki: Haruhi! Haruhi, are you all right!?
Honey: Hey, it's Tama-chan.
Hikaru: Oh, wow.
Kaoru: You okay, senpai?
Tamaki: Haruhi! I was so worried.
Hikaru: I'm not sure what happened here, but at least they're still alive.
Kaoru: It's pretty amazing that this is Honey senpai's work. He must have really been holding back.
Haruhi: Huh? What do you mean he was holding back?
Kaoru: So then...
Hikaru: You don't know about senpai? The Haninozukas are famous for their martial arts. Not only have they helped train the police and SDF forces but they've also worked with several overseas militaries.
Kyoya: Honey senpai in particular has been called the dreadnought of the Haninozuka family. By the time he was in middle school, he'd become the national champion in both karate and judo.
Tamaki: Mori senpai's no slouch either. He won the national championship in kendo when he was just in middle school.
Kaoru: So, how are you able to find this, Honey senpai?
Honey: It wasn't hard. It didn't take me long to reach the end of the current pool, so I decided to look for you guys.
Police force: We humbly apologize! I am a 2nd-generation student of the Ishizuka Dojo!
Police force: I am a student of the Todoroki Dojo!
Police force: And I'm from the Otake Dojo! We are in your debt!
Honey: Why? Is something wrong?
Police force: Yes, sir! We're so sorry, sir! We were unaware that we were searching for Mitsukuni Hanozuka. We've committed a terrible offense here. I apologize for this confrontation. But my Dojo will be so excited to hear that I've come face to face with the great Haninozuka. I cherish this moment.
Haruhi: So he is smart. He's deeper than I could ever imagine.
Honey: Takashi, you did an amazing job of protecting Haru-chan. I bet you were pretty lonely without me around, huh?
Mori: I don't know if I'd say that.
Hiakru: You know, maybe we should go to the beach next.
Kaoru: Yeah, the beach would be nice.
Tamaki: You idiots, Haruhi is not interested in anything like that.
Haruhi: Actually, I might like to go to the beach. I may not be into this silly water park, but I like the ocean. It would be nice to go to the beach. And it's so pretty.
Tamaki: Yeah. All right. Then that's where we'll go next time.
Honey: We're all gonna go to the beach, Tama-chan? That'll be fun, don't you think?
Mori: Yeah.
 Tamaki: We come to the beach like she wanted and all of a sudden, Haruhi and I get into a big fight.
Haruhi: I thought you weren't gonna talk to me anymore, senpai.
Tamaki: Haruhi.
Haruhi: Next time, "The Sun, the Sea, and the Host Club!"
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Haruhi: The beach?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Of course, the beach.
Haruhi: But why?
Hikaru: Don't you remember what you said?
Kaoru: You said you'd like to go to a real beach.
Haruhi: Did I say that?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Yes, Haruhi. Here's the fun part.
Kaoru: We brought some swimsuits for you to choose from.
Hikaru: Pretty cute, don't you think?
Honey: Not that one. I think that this swimsuit would look much cuter on Haru-chan.
Hikaru and Kaoru: I don't think you get it, Honey senpai.
Hikaru: Just look. This uniform barely hides the fact that Haruhi is as flat as a cutting board.
Kaoru: A one-piece suit like that would only upset her because it draws attention to her lacking feminine physique.
Hikaru and Kaoru: That's why we carefully selected this two piece suit, see? The ruffles help hide the fact that she's so flat-chested.
Tamaki: You punks had better quit sexually harassing my little girl! I've had enough of you!
Hikaru and Kaoru: That means we're not going to the beach?
Tamaki: Who said that we're not going?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Really? So you wanna go after all?
Hoaney: Can Use-chan come, too?
Kyoya: I have no problem with that.
Haruhi: Huh? We're really gonna go?
Tamaki: Why not? Let's go to the beach.
 Haruhi: "The Sun, the Sea, and the Host Club!"
 Hikaru and Kaoru: So, why'd we come to Okinawa?
Tamaki: Because Kyoya's family has a private beach here.
Honey: It's beautiful, isn't it?
Mori: Yeah.
Hikaru and Kaoru: But why couldn't we have gone...
Hikaru: ...to the Caribbean?
Kaoru: Or even Fiji?
Kyoya: Do you think a commoner like Haruhi has a passport?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Ahh.
Haruhi: You do realize that I can hear what you're saying, right?
Girl: It's so beautiful. Tamaki, being alone here with you and looking out at the sea, it's like a dream.
Tamaki: It's no dream. It's real. But if I could have my way, my princess, I'd be in your dreams every night.
Girl: Oh Tamaki.
Kaoru: Hey, take it easy, Hikaru.
Hikaru: I'm sorry. I'll get it. Wait for me, Kaoru.
Kaoru: It's not my fault. The ball is rolling away.
Haruhi: Why?
Kayoya: Her alone time with Tamaki is up. Next lady, please proceed.
Haruhi: This sucks. I thought going to the beach meant a day off.
Girl: Um Haruhi, aren't you going to go swimming with us?
Haruhi: No, uh, I like looking at the sea from a safe distance.
Girl: Well, if you're not going to swim, would you mind if we sat here and talked with you?
Haruhi: But why? You girls should go swim. You've got cute swimsuits on. Why not show them off?
Hikaru: I can't believe he fooled us.
Kaoru: Who'd have thought he'd bring the ladies with us?
Hikaru: We certainly didn't expect it.
Kyoya: You were invited on this all-expenses-paid vacation for a reason and that is to keep our clients entertained.
Hikaru: We know. But with the ladies here,
Kaoru: Haruhi can't change to her swimsuit.
Tamaki: Don't worry. I got it all under control. My little angel shouldn't be prancing around in her swimsuit, at least not in front of two perverts like you. And then, once the sun has begun to set, Haruhi and I will take a romantic stroll along the shore together.
Haruhi: Oh wow, what a pretty sunset. Oh senpai, I'd love to be with you here forever.
Tamaki: It'll happen just like that. The greatest day of my life. I don't know if I can handle it.
Girl: What's the matter with Tamaki? Is he having a seizure?
Hikaru: I wouldn't worry about it.
Kaoru: He gets like this occasionally.
Honey: Haru-chan! Wanna go "hellfish shunting"?
Haruhi: I think you're trying to say "shellfish hunting". But this doesn't seem to be that kind of beach, Honey senpai. You're not gonna find many shell...fish... What the hell? No way!
Kyoya: Mori senpai. My family's private police force has stopped by. They wanted to make up to Honey senpai for attacking him at the water park. So they brought shellfish.
Honey: Amazing! Look how many we got!
Haruhi: We're gonna have some fancy side dishes tonight. It's gonna be delicious.
Tamaki: My my, certainly looks like they're enjoying themselves. All's right with the world.
Haruhi: Senpai, dinner is gonna be awesome. It's a major haul!
Tamaki: Oh I'm just so proud. Look at my little girl!
Haruhi: It's a major haul! It's a major haul!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Say what?
Haruhi: Dinner is gonna be awesome. It'll be a real treat!
Tamaki: Tell me, Haruhi. Isn't this crab crab-tivating?
Haruhi: Oh yeah.
Tamaki: You're so cute.
Girls: Cen- ti- pede!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Hey, Haruhi.
Hikaru: Now I know most girls aren't really the bug-loving type and I certainly didn't think you were, but...
Koaru: Don't you think you could've been easy on that little guy?
Haruhi: Oh come on. It's not dead. It takes a lot more than that to kill a bug.
Girl: Haruhi is so brave and manly.
Girl: It's still so sweet.
Girl: He's the best.
Hikaru: Well, isn't that just great?
Kaoru: Haruhi is not normal. I thought girls were afraid of bugs.
Tamaki: I'm sure she's afraid of something...
Hikaru and Kaoru: Hey boss, listen up. We just thought up a new game to play that could be a lot of fun. What do you say? It's called the "Who can find Haruhi's weakness" game. So think you're up to it?
Tamaki: But that game sounds terrible.
Hikaru: Yeah, I guess you're right. Besides she'd only share her weakness with someone she was really close to.
Tamaki: What are the rules?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Now that's more like it.
Hikaru: The deadline is sunset tomorrow.
Kaoru: Whoever finds out her weakness first wins.
Kyoya: And I have the perfect prize for the game's lucky winner.
Honey: We wanna play, too!
Kyoya: I guess that means we're all competing.
Tamaki: Where did you get those pictures of Haruhi?
Honey: Hey wait a minute. Where did you get those pictures, Kyo-chan?
Kyoya: I have my sources. How about we just leave it at that for the moment.
 Hikaru: This is the place. It's the most haunted spot in all of Okinawa. The locals don't even come out here.
Kaoru: They say that the only time you can even find this cave is at low tide. Evidently, many people have died down here from drowning. And their souls still linger, taking revenge on anyone who happens to come inside.
Haruhi: What's going on? Are you trying to freak me out?
Kaoru; What's wrong with you? I thought everyone was afraid of ghosts.
Haruhi: But I've never seen a real one.
Honey: Haru-chan! Would you come over here?
Haruhi: What the...? Are you sure it's okay to drive a truck like this on the sand?
Honey: Well, we're ready whenever you are, private police people, please lower the door.
Private police people: Yes, sir.
Honey: It's dark and scary in here! I feel like I can't breathe!
Haruhi: Honey senpai, what's wrong?
Honey: Somebody, let me out! I can't take it any more!
 Haruhi: Mori, ah, you're my senpai, not a sentai.
Hikaru: This game is harder than I thought it'd be.
Kaoru: No joke. I'm totally bored with it already.
Hikaru: What kind of heroine is she? She's gotta be afraid of something, right?
Tamaki: Ah ha!
Hikaru: What's up, boss?
Kaoru: What are you doing?
Tamaki: I found some rat snakes. Surely she'll freak out when she sees these.
Hikaru: Anyone would think those are creepy. So it isn't really a weakness.
Hikaru: Hold on. I thought there weren't any rat snakes in Okinawa.
Haruhi: Another side dish!
Girl: Look up here, Haruhi.
Girl: What's up! The breeze up here feels great!
Haruhi: It's dangerous. Be careful.
Girl: This feels so good.
Girl: Mm-hmm.
Man: Hey there're chicks up there, man.
Man: Aren't we lucky? You ladies wanna hang out with a couple of locals?
Girl: No thanks. Please just leave us alone.
Man: Oh come on. We just wanna show you girls how to have a good time.
Girl: This is a private beach. You guys are not allowed to be here.
Man: Private? Does that mean we're alone?
Haruhi: Why don't you quit bothering them? Weren't you jerks listening? You better just leave them alone.
Girl: Haruhi!
Man: You little runt.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Those aren't rat snakes. Those are poisonous habu snakes.
Tamaki: What do I do with them? Come on, guys. Help me out.
Girl: Tamaki! It's Haruhi!
Man: What are you gonna do now, loser?
Girl: Don't hurt him.
Man: Now don't you try and act all tough, you little sissy boy.
Man: I got an idea, kid. How would you like to take a dip?
Tamaki: Haruhi!
Man: Hope you could swim.
Honey: Haru-chan!
Hikaru: Boss!
Tamaki: Where'd they go?
Kyoya: We took their ID cards and respectfully asked them to leave. The girls all went back to the hotel and I called a doctor. He should be arriving here any minute now.
Tamaki: Thank you.
Haruhi: I'm fine, you guys. I don't need a doctor.
Tamaki: What were you thinking? You know, you're not like Honey senpai. You're not a martial arts master. Why did you confront them? What made you think you would stand a chance? You against two boys?
Haruhi: But it doesn't matter that they're boys and I'm a girl. I was there. I had to do something. There wasn't any time to think...
Tamaki: That's no excuse, you idiot. Don't forget, you're a girl.
Haruhi: Look, I'm sorry you had to come and save me, senpai. But I don't understand why you're so mad at me right now. I don't think I did anything wrong.
Tamaki: You don't think so? Fine, whatever you say. But I'm not speaking to you until you can admit that you were wrong!
 Honey: Ta-da. Here you go. Don't they look yummy?
Kyoya: I apologize that there aren't any maids around to help you cook senpai.
Honey: It's no big deal. We appreciate you letting us stay here. Hey Takashi, will you go get Haru-chan?
Honey: It's awfully gloomy out there, huh? It looks like it's gonna rain.
Hikaru: It's not just gloomy outside.
Kaoru: It's pretty gloomy right here in the dining room as well. Just take a look at senpai.
Hikaru: Come on. Quit moping, boss.
Kaoru: You shouldn't have picked a fight with her in the first place.
Honey: Whoa!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Haruhi, where did you get that dress?
Haruhi: From my dad. He must have repacked my bags when I wasn't looking. He's always trying to get me to wear this frilly stuff.
Hikaru and Kaoru: That's awesome! Way to go, dad!
Honey: You look so cute, Haru-chan.
Hikaru: Oh, this is uncomfortable.
Kaoru: Yeah, kind of awkward.
Honey: Let's dig in, Haru-chan. These are the crabs we caught. I bet they're delicious.
Haruhi; These crabs... taste in-crab-ible. Get it?
Tamaki: Don't you think you've had enough? Give it a rest.
Haruhi: Excuse me, I thought you weren't speaking to me.
Tamaki: You... trying to be cute? Okay fine, I get it. It seems you refuse to admit that you were wrong. See if I care, then. I'm going to bed. Kyoya, would you show me to my room, please?
Kyoya: No problem. Well, excuse me, everyone.
Haruhi: Maybe he's right. Maybe I do need to learn a way to protect myself.
Tamaki: Why did you confront them? What made you think you would stand a chance? You against two boys?
Hikaru and Kaoru: So, that's it. He got to you, huh?
Hikaru: Well, it wouldn't hurt you to learn martial arts or something.
Kaoru: But it's not like we're going to force you to learn it.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Besides, that's not the real issue here.
Hikaru: To be honest, we were all a little worried about how recklessly you acted.
Haruhi: What do you mean? I didn't cause you guys any trouble or anything.
Honey: That's not true, Haru-chan. I think you should apologize, 'kay? You made us all worried, especially Tama-chan. I think you need to apologize to him the most.
Haruhi: So you were worried about me? But why?
Hikaru and Kaoru: You're hopeless.
Haruhi: You think? Guys, I'm really sorry.
Hikaru: Apology accepted, you little mutt.
Kaoru: You're so cute. We forgive you.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Is something wrong?
Haruhi: I'm not feeling so good.
Hikaru: You must've eaten too much crab.
Honey: Be strong, Haru-chan!
Kaoru: Let's get her to the nearest restroom! Hurry!
Haruhi: Well, that was a waste of a good meal. I was in such a hurry, I ran into the closest room I could find. Where am I?
Kyoya: Are you okay?
Haruhi: I apologize, sir. I didn't mean to intrude.
Kyoya: Don't be silly. It's just me.
Haruhi: Kyoya senpai? Senpai, I'm sorry. I really didn't mean to make everyone worry about me today.
Kyoya: Thanks, but I wasn't especially worried. Although, I did have a hard time separating Kaoru and Hikaru from those two punks. They almost beat them half-to-death. And because of you, I had to send each of the girls a bouquet of flowers to apologize. They've been looking forward to this trip and we don't wanna disappoint them.
Haruhi: I'll pay you back for the flowers, senpai.
Kyoya: Each bouquet cost me 50,000. That's a grand total of 600,000 yen, Haruhi.
Haruhi: Uh, why'd you turn the lights off?
Kyoya: If you want to, you can pay me back with your body. Surely, you aren't so naive that you actually believe a person's sex doesn't matter. You've left yourself completely defenseless against me.
Haruhi: So that's it. You won't do it, Kyoya senpai. I know. Because it wouldn't do you any good. You wouldn't gain anything from it.
Kyoya: You're right. You're a fascinating young woman, Haruhi.
Haruhi: But I've learned something from this. I guess I never realized what a nice guy you are, senpai. I know what you're doing. You're just trying to prove what Tamaki senpai said earlier.
Tamaki: That's no excuse, you idiot. Don't forget, you're a girl.
Haruhi: I know that you're trying to prove his point, that you're just posing as the bad guy.
Tamaki: Kyoya? Do you have any lotion? This sunburn is worse than I... You bastard!
Kyoya: Here. Use as much as you want, you big goof. Nothing to be gained from it, huh? An interesting thought in its own way.
Tamaki: What were you doing alone with him?
Haruhi: Nothing, really.
Tamaki: You expect me to believe that nothing was going on? You were alone in his bedroom. And why were the lights out? Don't you lie to me. Never mind. You've been through a lot today. I'm sure you're tired. You should get some sleep.
Haruhi: Senpai!
Tamaki: What's wrong, Haruhi?
Haruhi: It's nothing. I just remembered there's some business I have to take care of. Excuse me.
Tamaki: What business could you have in a wardrobe? Haruhi, are you afraid of thunder and lightning? Why'd you lock yourself in there? It seems like it would be scarier locked up like that.
Haruhi: I'm all right. I'm used to getting through stuff like this by myself.
Tamaki: By yourself? You're always by yourself. All alone in your home. You never call us for help even though we're so close. I get it. I understand now, Haruhi. I'm sorry, I acted the way I did. You grew up without relying on anyone else. But not anymore. You can come out now. You don't have to be afraid. I'll always be here for you, Haruhi. I promise that you'll never be alone again.
Hikaru: Are you sure it's a good idea?
Kaoru: To leave the two of them alone?
Kyoya: She's with our prince, Tamaki. What could possibly go wrong?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Hey, boss? We're coming in.
Tamaki: With the blindfold on, you can't see anything, and the earplugs help muffle any sound.
Haruhi: Wow! Yeah, you're right.
Hikaru: You nasty pervert.
Kaoru: What kind of foreplay is that?
Tamaki: It's not like that! It's not what you think!
Hikaru: You better watch your back, Haruhi.
Kaoru: I never would've pegged the boss as an S&M pervert.
Tamaki: I told you, it wasn't like that at all!
Haruhi: I see. Well now I know what S&M is. I can't believe I almost let you get away with it.
Tamaki: I wasn't doing anything freaky. I was trying to help you.
Kyoya: Let's go.
Tamaki: Hey! Don't leave without me! Wait, you guys!
 Tamaki: I never noticed. Haruhi is perfectly suited to attending an elite all-girls' school. And that's exactly why I can't let her transfer.
Haruhi: Next time, "A Challenge from Lobelia Girls' Academy!"
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Haruhi: Really? All the afternoon classes have been cancelled?
Girl: You mean no one told you?
Girl: It's going to be crazy around here for the next two days. Ouran is hosting an exposition for the cultural clubs.
Girl: Drama and choral clubs from a bunch of other schools have been invited.
Girl: It's a big event this school hosts annually.
Haruhi: Is that so?
Hikaru and Kaoru: What? You've never tried it?
Hikaru: Didn't anyone tell you that it's the preferred drink of the host club?
Kaoru: And you are our manager, so you should drink it too.
Renge: Um well, I-I think I've heard of instant coffee before. Oh, that's right. Isn't that one coffee beans that have already been ground for you?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Bzzzt!
Hikaru: That's just ground coffee. Instant is something completely different. I don't even think there're any coffee beans in instant coffee. You just mix this powder with hot water and drink it. You don't have to brew it. It's pretty awesome.
Kaoru: So, it's basically just like coffee, but not as robust.
Hikaru: And yet it's strangely satisfying.
Kaoru: Now that you mention it, we just ran out of it, didn't we?
Hikaru and Kaoru: Go buy us some more, Haruhi.
Haruhi: Why do I have to go get it?
Hikaru: Because you're the only commoner. No one else knows where to buy it.
Kaoru: We've even been serving it to our guests lately. And besides, it's part of your job.
Haruhi: But the cultural club exposition starts soon.
Hikaru: Yeah, but it's not mandatory. So if you're not interested, you don't have to go.
Kaoru: And with that being said,
Hikaru and Kaoru: Be careful out there.
Haruhi: Damn them. I really hate rich people.
Girl: Thanks for helping them out, Haruhi.
Haruhi: No problem. I just wish they'd buy their own instant coffee.
Girl: Well, I don't know if that'll ever happen but I'm glad they seem to be having a good time.
Girl: And it's all thanks to you.
Haruhi: All thanks to me?
Girl: We've been in the same class with the twins ever since middle school. They didn't used to be this cheerful and friendly. They were always quiet and withdrawn. They didn't have many friends. It's like they didn't want anyone to get too close. I don't think they liked school very much. They seemed so bored by it. I guess things started to change when the host club was created. Since then, they've come out of their shells little by little.
Haruhi: Really?
Girl: But they really opened up since you've joined host club. Now they talk and joke with everyone in class. That's why we wanted to make sure you knew how grateful we are to you. Because of you, the twins are having fun and enjoying each day to the fullest.
Benibara: It would be a shame if any harm would come to that cute face of yours, young lady.
 Haruhi: "A Challenge From Lobelia Girls' Academy".
 Suzuran: This looks like the place.
Hinagiku: Mm-hmm.
Host club members: Welcome, ladies.
Tamaki: Well, well, well. I see you ladies are from another school. I certainly hope we haven't startled you. We love first-time guests. I'm glad you've come, princesses. My darlings, even if the world were to be destroyed, I'd put my life on the line as your faithful knight and servant. I will protect you.
Suzuran: Oh my, do you really think you'll be able to protect us? That's awfully arrogant of you, wouldn't you agree? You think that's what a woman wants to hear? Well you're wrong.
Hinagiku: Come on. Give him a break, sister Suzuran. Men are just lowly life forms who don't care about anything other than perpetuating their testosterone latent image. By protecting us he's actually attempting to disguise the fact that he is weak and unable of even protecting himself.
Suzuran: You're such a clever girl, Hinagiku.
Tamaki: Don't you think that's a little harsh? Fine then. What do women like you want to hear?
Benibara: Maybe, something like "I would never leave my lover alone." If we fight, it'll be together. If we fail, we fail together. Even if I were to die, I promise you that I will never leave your side, my love.
Hingiku: Benibara, we thought you'd never show.
Suzuran: What are we going to do with you? So tell us where you found this lovely young lady.
Benibara: I just met her outside of the school. She may be dressed as a boy, but I knew the truth. She has such pretty maidenly eyes.
Haruhi: Uh thanks, I guess.
Hinagiku: Wow, her skin is incredibly soft.
Suzuran: Isn't it, though? I think this one's going to be a little diamond in the rock.
Tamaki: Don't go touching my Haruhi without asking my permission.
Benibara: Leave her alone.
Tamaki: She punched me. She's so violent.
Honey: Get ahold of yourself.
Benibara: Guess the rumors we heard are true. You guys are just a bunch of weak little punks with no sense between you.
Kyoya: Those uniforms. I assume you ladies are from Lobelia girls' academy.
Benibara: That's correct.
Benibara: Lobelia!
Suzuran: Lobelia!
Hinagiku: Lobelia!
Benibara: St. Lobelia academy, high school 2nd-year, Benio Amakusa.
Zuka club members: Lobelia!
Suzuran: 2nd-year student, Chizuru Maihara.
Zuka club members: Lobelia!
Hinagiku: 1st-year student, Hinako Tsuwabuki.
Zuka club members: Lobelia!
Benibara: We are the members of St. Lobelia academy's white lily league, also known as...
Zuka club members: The Zuka club!
Tamaki: The Zuka club?
Hikaru: Oh man, what a stupid name. The Zuka club. My stomach hurts.
Kaoru: The Zuka club. That's priceless. And they had those get-ups on under their uniforms.
Renge: You shouldn't underestimate the Zuka club.
I may not know much about instant coffee, but I'm fascinated with girls' schools.
St. Lobelia academy, it is truly a woman's world there. The Zuka club is a group of strong young maidens who consider women to be superior in every way. The club prides itself on its 30 year history. It's a society of maidens, by maidens, for maidens. The Zuka club activities include maidens' tea parties, the maiden debate forum, and most importantly, musical reviews performed by the society's top members.
Kyoya: You sure have a vast world of knowledge, Renge.
Renge: Well, I've always admired St, Lobelias. I just couldn't go to school there, though. What would I do without any boys?
Suzuran: A maiden's beauty. It means possessing a spirit pure enough to not give in to power or to lust.
Hinagiku: As a girl, you... For a girl, you... We've had quite enough of all your oppressive male contempt for woman kind.
Benibara: And our pride... comes from having meaningful relationships based on equality. Because with the same sex. And yes, that includes relationships of love.
Suzuran: Yeah, you tell them, Benio.
Hinagiku: You're awesome, Benibara.
Kaoru: Whatever. We're so over it.
Hikaru: Why don't you gals just scram?
Hinagiku: I find it hard to believe that you silly boys have nothing to say about our sublime female love.
Hikaru: What the hell is she talking about?
Kaoru: Hey, I haven't seen this one before. I guess it's a new one.
Suzuran: You should feel sorry for them, Hinagiku. Their patented host skills don't work on us. Now they're all flustered and they don't know what to do with themselves.
Benibara: True. I must say I'm glad we decided to perform here. It was fun to sneak a peek at the notorious Ouran host club.
Honey: Hey guys, are we really notorious?
Mori: Yeah.
Benibara: And to think they're dragging this sweet young girl down with them. The host club's president may be a pretty little halfer. But he shouldn't be using his looks to create a fictitious romance. Attempting to fool the heart of a pure young maiden is demeaning. Your so-called club activities are nothing more than debasing macho fantasies. I promise you. We will bring you guys down. The Ouran host club will be abolished.
Zuka club members: All hail Zuka club.
Kyoya: I see. I understand your concern. But do you think maybe we could finish this later?
Benibara: Are you saying that you're not going to face us?
Kyoya: Not at all. It's just that our president is still bed-ridden from the initial culture shock.
Honey: You see, Tama-chan is having his nappy time right now.
Benibara: Wake him up!
Haruhi: Excuse me, I made some coffee. Would you ladies like to have some?
Benibara: Why yes. Aren't you the sweetest thing?
Suzuran: You're a real pearl among swine.
Benibara: You know, coffee made by a maiden always has a more fragrant aroma.
Haruhi: But this stuff is just instant.
Hinagiku: How about the four of us have a little tea party?
Tamaki: You, girls have it all wrong! Don't you see there's nothing to be gained in a romantic relationship between two women? If that were the case, then why did God create Adam and Eve? Hot, hot, hot, hot, hot...
Haruhi: You gotta be more careful, Senpai.
Tamaki: Thanks, Haruhi. Do you always carry bandages around with you?
Haruhi: Nah, the supermarket was giving them out with the purchase of instant coffee. You always get free stuff at the supermarket.
Tamaki: Free stuff?
Banibara: This little conversation doesn't seem to be going anywhere. Now that we know what's going on, we can't allow this maiden to stay here. We'll prepare her paperwork and have her transfer to Lobelia at once and welcome her into the Zuka club.
Haruhi: Hey just wait a second, will you? There seems to have been some misunderstandings here. I mean, first of all, you called senpai a halfer.
Honey: 'Cause he is a halfer. He's half French and half Japanese.
Haruhi: Oh well. Uh anyway, I don't think it's fair for you to pick on the host club just because you don't think they have the same history as you do.
Hikaru: We barely have any history. We were just founded two years ago.
Kaoru: Yeah, the boss created it whenever he started high school here.
Haruhi: Be that as it may, saying their club activity is only held to satisfy their appetites is just wrong. I mean, it's not like the host club's charging their guests or anything.
Kyoya: Well, I wouldn't call it a charge. We do have a point system. We offer priority services based on the winning bids of auctions held on our website. Check this out, Haruhi. Your used mechanical pencil just sold with a winning bid of 30,000 yen. Good for you.
Haruhi: What! But I thought I'd lost that pencil. Why didn't you tell me about this before, Kyoya senpai? I had no idea you were collecting money.
Kyoya: So, you thought we were all just working here as volunteers? While it's not much because of the expensive organizing events, we happen to make a small profit from the online auctions.
Haruhi: You can't sell other people's thing without asking permission. That's stealing!
Hikaru and Kaoru: It wasn't stealing. You dropped that pencil on the floor.
Tamaki: Waah. I'm sorry, Haruhi. It's not like we were hiding it from you. Here, you can have mine. It's got a cute teddy bear on it.
Haruhi: Senpai, I don't want your pencil.
Tamaki: Then to make it up to you, how about I do this? I'll tell you the secrets to my success in my fondest memories.
Haruhi: Not to be rude, senpai, but I'm not really interested in that information.
Tamaki: Not interested?
Suzuran: Oh, you poor dear. I can't believe they've been deceiving you.
Hinagiku: Hey, why don't you just dump these losers and come with us?
Benibara: Hold on, Hinagiku. This young maiden's had quite a day. We'll give you some time to think about it. We'll come back for your answer tomorrow. Well then, adieu.
Haruhi: I better be going. I've got some thinking to do.
Tamaki: Why did you have to tell her the truth? You just added fuel to the fire.
Kyoya: The facts are the facts.
Honey: Maybe we should have asked before we sold her pencil on the internet.
Kaoru: Yeah, for all we know, it was a keepsake from her mother.
Hikaru: Nah, it was just a freebie they were giving out at an electronics store.
Tamaki: Gentlemen, just think about it. Haruhi may be basically indifferent, but if she had to choose, we know that she tends to favor men's clothing. And besides, when she first joined the host club, didn't she tell us...
Haruhi: Being a host and getting fussed over by a bunch of girls might not be that bad.
Tamaki: Why didn't I realize this before? Perhaps they would be a better match for Haruhi. Maybe she'd be better off with the Zuka club.
Kaoru: Yeah, she's perfect for a girls' school.
Honey: Haru-chan is going to transfer away.
Hikaru: What are we going to do?
Kaoru: Haruhi is so smart. Passing Lobelia's scholarship tests would be a piece of cake.
Kyoya: And Lobelia academy has the money to pay off the 8 million yen debt she owes us.
Tamaki: Calm down, gentlemen. It'll be all right. Listen to what I have to say. I have a secret plan.
 Zuka club members. Lo- be- li- a.
Hinagiku: I thought today's performance went extremely well.
Suzuran: Our singing and acting skills are admired wherever we go.
Benibara: That's true. But the main event has yet to begin. Right, girls?
Hi young maiden.
Hinagiku: We've come for your decision. Are you prepared to leave?
Suzuran: We're ready to confront those Ouran host club idiots and set things straight once and for all.
Haruhi: Set what straight?
Benibara: That you should come with us and go to school with your own kind.
Kaoru or Hkaru: Ouran!
Kaoru or Hkaru: Ouran!
Mori: Ouran!
Kyoya: Ouran!
Honey: Ouran!
Tamaki: Ouran!
Host club members: Host club welcomes you!
Tamaki: Oh, Haruhi, welcome back.
Honey: Look, Haru-chan. I'm a princess now. Are they cute?
Benibara: What is the meaning of this? Are you trying to make fun of woman kind?
Tamaki: What? No, that's not it at all. Everything's going according to plan. Our strategy is guaranteed to make even a crying child smile. It's the freebie campaign. My dears, you ladies have all lived sheltered lives at Lobelia, so you might not know, that commoners are weak. They have a weakness for free things. Haruhi, you may be distracted by the Zuka club. But choose us. And you gain not only a host club full of brothers but sisters as well. See. This way, you can experience feminine bonding while staying in the host club. Isn't that a great idea? Aren't I pretty?
Hikaru and Kaoru: We're the Hitachiin sisters. Which one of us is prettier?
Hikaru: I'm just teasing you.
Koaru: Ohohoho.
Honey: Listen, Haru-chan You can call me big sis from now on.
Benibara: Why you... Do you idiots really think you can win her over like this? I've had enough of your fooling around.
Haruhi: This is too much. I don't even get what you're trying to do. I knew you were a bunch of goofballs, but geez...
Hikaru, Kaoru and Honey: Are we really that funny? Call me big sister. Come on, do it. Just say it. Big sister. Say it please.
Haruhi: Come on. Cut it out. What were you thinking? What's gotten into you guys?
Hikaru: We did this because we don't want you to leave the host club, Haruhi.
Benibara: Well, maiden, have you made a choice?
Haruhi: Yeah, I have. I'm sorry but your club's not for me. I think the idea of a girls' school is great. And your views are very unique and interesting. But I came to this school with a goal and a plan for my future. So while I appreciate your offer, I really already knew that I was never going to leave Ouran academy.
Tamaki: Haruhi. Hold on. If you knew you weren't going to leave, then why did you act so angry yesterday?
Haruhi: How would you feel if I stole something of yours without asking you? I really liked that mechanical pencil. It was easy to write with.
Tamaki: I'm sorry. But I was nice and offered my teddy-bear pencil in return, and you said you didn't want it.
Haruhi: That's right. I still don't want it.
Suzuran: Um Benio...
Benibara: Yes, I know. We're not going to give up on you, maiden. I swear this to you. Some day, we'll come and rescue you from this place. And when we do, we'll abolish the Ouran host club. Well, adieu.
Renge: And so, a new rival, the Zuka club has appeared. From this point on, the story's gonna get even more exciting. What's gonna happen to our beloved host club boys next? Hang in there, host club. Don't give up, boys.
Tamaki: Hey, it's not your job to cook things up.
 Tamaki: Is Haruhi really suffering in a life of poverty? I have to go see for myself.
Haruhi: You're just gonna cause trouble. You don't need to come over.
Tamaki: Whoa, you're Haruhi's father?
Haruhi: Next time, "A Day in the Life of the Fujioka Family!".
Tamaki: The Ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Tamaki: This can't be right.
Haruhi: Hey everyone, why don't you come in? I know it's not much but please make yourselves at home. I'll make us some tea. Um, I'm sorry. We don't have enough cups, but we do have some bowls. Hey, here.
Kaoru: Hey boss, what's with this place? She lives here?
Hikaru: Maybe, it's some kind of set. You know, like in the movies.
Tamaki: I-I-I-I hope so. Calm down, you guys. I bet this is the storeroom. I'm positive the infinite cosmos is just on the other side of that closet.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Then, should we try to open it?
Tamaki: Now's not the time.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Got it.
Haruhi: Since you guys decided to come by at lunchtime, my dad said it would be rude if we didn't offer you enough something to eat. We've been fasting for three days to save up money to buy something suited to your taste. But it's all worth it as long as you guys like it. Ta-da. A sushi sampler. It was marked down at the supermarket. How about that?
Honey: Sorry, we came to visit, Haru-chan. Don't make us eat it.
Tamaki: Be strong, men. Haruhi suffered for our benefits. So it's the least we can do.
Kaoru: But sir, I'm not even sure this is fish.
Haruhi: Wow, I can't believe it. Isn't this a piece of fancy tuna? I've never tasted it till now. It's delicious.
Tamaki: What? No, Haruhi! That's just regular old tuna. It's by no means fancy. Just a dream.
Shima: Good morning, Master Tamaki. Anything we can do for you?
Tamaki: I need to get going. Please bring the car around front at once.
Man: Yes, of course, sir.
Shima: I beg you pardon, Master Tamaki, but what would you like for breakfast this morning?
Tamaki: I don't want any. I already told you I have to get going. I can't shake that nightmare I had this morning. I respect the privacy of our club members. So I've never intruded on their personal lives. But what if Haruhi really is living in poverty? What if the pover is at home? I have to go see Haruhi and try to get the truth out of her. I've gotta get to school.
Shima: Hold it right there, Master Tamaki. I can't let you leave the house like that. You're still wearing your pajama bottoms and your house slippers. Well, he's not the brightest young man.
Tamaki: Thank you, Shima and I'll be going now.
Shima: I hate to be a bother, Master Tamaki, but today is Sunday, which means you don't have to go to school today, sir.
Tamaki: Oh really. Well, why don't you make me aware of that fact earlier?
Shima: As your maid, it's my duty to help you. However, I want you to become a fine gentleman. So, you must be able to recognize your own mistakes. Since you suddenly have some free time on your hands, why don't we work on your manners?
Tamaki: I have to make a call. Someone, bring me a phone.
Maid: Sure.
Tamaki: Hey Kyoya, there's something I need to talk to you about.
 Haruhi: "A Day in the Life of the Fujioka Family".
 Haruhi: That was some sale. There's no better time to hit the supermarket than a Sunday morning. Now all I've gotta do when I get home is clean and do some laundry. What's going on? Why are they in front of our apartment?
Man: Check out that car. Super rich.
Man: Here you are, Master.
Kaoru: So, this is where Haruhi lives?
Hikaru: It's pretty big, huh? Bigger than I thought it would be.
Honey: Yeah, look at all the rooms!
Kyoya: This building is what you might call an aggregate commoner dwelling. Haruhi's home is just one of the many units in this building.
Tamaki: Kyoya, why? Why did you bring these idiots with us? Especially those two doppelgangers!
Kyoya: Well, you see. I knew you didn't have the courage to come here alone. So I thought it would be best if everyone came along. All right, let's go home. I guess I underestimated our great leader.
Hikaru and Kaoru: What? I'm not going home.
Tamaki: I'm sorry. Don't leave. I don't want to be alone.
Man: Is this for some kind of movie shoot or something?
Child: Rich people! Rich people!
Tamaki: Now, listen up, men, Don't you forget! We must be polite. This is a casual "we just happened to be in the neighborhood" kind of visit. We're not here to judge the Fujuoka family's lifestyle. The words, shabby, cramped and run-down, are absolutely forbidden.
Honey, Hikaru and Kaoru: Right! Yes, sir!
Tamaki: Don't say anything that might offend Haruhi or her father and cause them to ask us to leave.
Haruhi: Well it's too late for that. Go away.
Tamaki: Haruhi!
Host club members: That pink dress is pretty cute.
Haruhi: Shut up! Get the hell out of here!
Tamaki: Haruhi's so mad she actually cursed at us.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Hey, it wasn't us.
Landlady: Excuse me, Haruhi, but is everything all right?
Haruhi: Oh hi miss landlady.
Landlady: Those young men are driving such a fancy foreign cars. They are not Yakuza, are they?
Haruhi: No, they're not.
Landlady: Do you want me to call the police for you?
Tamaki: Pleased to meet you, madam. My name is Suou, and I'm one of Haruhi's friends.
Landlady: Really? My goodness, why aren't you just adorable?
Haruhi: And he's got her.
Landlady: We were just stopping by. We didn't mean to cause a scene. I'm sorry.
Landlady: Oh, it's no problem. I'll stop by later with some snacks for you and your friends. See you later.
Haruhi: Okay, here is the deal. I'm only giving you guys a quick peek, 3 seconds. And you all go home, got it?
Honey: Look, I brought you a gift, Haru-chan. I know how you love cake. There is both chocolate and strawberry. I think we should have some.
Honey: Fine. I guess I'll make some tea.
Tamaki: Whew. At least, it's better than my dream.
Hikaru: What a hovel.
Tamaki: Shut up!
Kyoya: A wood-built, two-bed room unit. That's normal for commoner family of two.
Kaoru: Haruhi is such a pipsqueak. At least, we know she won't hit her head on the low ceilings.
Honey: Wow, I think it's a super cute little room.
Haruhi: You don't have to struggle to compliment it.
Honey: Hold on. Are we supposed to take off our shoes, too?
Haruhi: Please if you don't mind.
Honey: Did you hear that? We have to take our shoes off. It's kinda like going to a dojo, huh?
Mori: Yeah.
Hikaru: Do you have any slippers for us, Haruhi?
Kaoru: Wait. The rooms are covered with tatami-mat.
Hikaru: In that case, we don't need slippers.
Honey, Hikaru and Kaoru: Great. Thanks for inviting us in.
Mori: Yeah, thanks.
Tamaki: It's greatly appreciated.
Kyoya: Yes, thanks, Haruhi.
Hikaru: Wow, talk about small.
Mori; Ow.
Kaoru: Be careful. The light bulb is just hanging from the ceiling.
Tamaki: This place is quite unpleasant. But I think I may underestimate the commoner housing. I know it's a tight fit in here men but just pull your knees in and sit gym style. Commoners have specially developed this position to conserve space.
Haruhi: I just gotta get through this visit. I should've expected this from them. I'm gonna go make us some tea.
Hikaru: Hey, here is an idea. Why don't you make us this? It's black tea that our father brought us as a souvenir from Africa. Here. Try it.
Haruhi: Oh sure. No problem.
Kaoru: It's best served as milk tea. Do you have milk?
Haruhi: I think. When was the last time that I bought some milk?
Tamaki: Stop it. What the hell are you doing? Don't be so mean to her, you idiots.
Hikaru and Kaoru: What do you mean?
Tamaki: I know you're trying to embarrass her by asking for that African tea. Look! She has no idea how she's supposed to prepare it.
HIkaru: She doesn't even have a tea pot.
Kaoru: She is too embarrassed to tell us that she doesn't. I'm sorry, Haruhi. You don't have to go to all that trouble. We don't need any tea. We'd be fine with a glass of water.
Haruhi: What? It's not trouble. Besides, I've already made it.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh, well in that case.
Hikaru: Whew, men, that was a close one, boss.
Tamaki: We have been rescued by commoners' wisdom.
Kaoru: What do you mean, sir?
Tamaki: Nothing we know to be true in our world holds true here. We have to be careful how we react. One little offhanded remark would break Haruhi's heart. That means, in this fight, the first person to embarrass Haruhi loses.
Kyoya: While your antics are amusing, I don't understand why you feel the need to turn this into a contest.
Haruhi: Okay, guys, the tea is ready. I'm sorry that not all of the cups match.
Tamaki: At least she's not using chipped bowls and measuring cups.
Honey: Come on, Haru-chan. You can choose your cake first.
Haruhi: Are you sure, Honey senpai?
HIkaru: Go ahead. We're rich. We eat this kind of stuff all the time.
Kaoru and Tamaki: Shh!
Haruhi: Um in that case, I'll have the strawberry.
Tamaki, Hikaru and Kaoru: She's so cute.
Tamaki: I wish I could tell her how cute she is. But there is no telling what might offend her.
Hikaru and Kaoru: The traps of the commoner's world are terrifying.
Mori: You like strawberries, right? You can have mine.
Haruhi: Thanks. That's nice of you, Mori senpai.
Hikaru: Why didn't we think of that?
Tamaki: I should have been sharing strawberries with her.
Kaoru: Why'd we let him trick us?
Honey: Ah, eating all that cake sure wet my appetite.
Hikaru: Yeah, isn't it lunchtime about now?
Host club members: Well then, what's for lunch.
Haruhi: Will you guys quit being so happy-go-lucky all the time, please?
Kyoya: We'll take care of it. We did drop in unexpectedly. So we'll pay for lunch. Why don't you just order us all some of your favorite sushi?
Haruhi: Thanks, but no thanks. I know that if I let you guys pay, I'll only regret it later.
Kyoya: Oh don't worry, Haruhi. We'll just pay for it using the profits from the photos of you we auctioned off.
Haruhi: So I'm really paying for it after all. Well if that's what you want, I do have a friend who runs a nice little sushi shop nearby, so I can just give them a call. Their stuff is pretty high-quality.
Be careful, Haruhi. Just because the sushi's packaging says premium doesn't mean that it's high-quality.
I'm not stupid. I could figure that out on my own.
Tamaki: How could you do that? Daddy even attempted to look casual not to embarrass you!
Honey: I'd really love it if you make us something for lunch, Haru-chan.
Hikaru: No, Honey senpai.
Kaor How could you ask that of her?
Tamaki: Don't upset her. Try to restrain yourself.
Haruhi: I guess I could whip something up, but it's gonna take me some time.
Honey: We can wait.
Tamaki, Hikaru and Kaoru: Why didn't we think of asking her that?
Tamaki: This means we'll get to eat Haruhi's cooking.
Haruhi: I'm gonna have to go to the supermarket again.
Hikaru: We're coming with you.
Kaoru: We want to see a commoners' supermarket.
Honey: Me too! Me too!
Kyoya: This could be a learning experience.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Yay! commoners' supermarket, commoners' supermarket.
Honey: This is going to be fun.
Haruhi: Oh, well that's it. So much for having a day off today. Hey senpai, aren't you coming with us?
Tamaki: I am. I just wanted to pay my respects to your mother before we left.
Haruhi: Thank you. You don't have to do that.
Tamaki: Looks like you take after your mom.
Haruhi: I guess. That's what my dad always tells me.
Tamaki: She was a beautiful woman. And I bet she was a smart one as well.
Haruhi: I'm not really good judge of beauty, but she was smart. She was a lawyer.
Tamaki: Oh yeah? No doubt she was a great lawyer. I can tell. Trust me. You can't fool these eyes, Haruhi.
Haruhi: I'm not so sure about that, senpai. But my mom...
Kotoko: Well Haruhi, your mom is gonna go out there and do her best. Watch. We're gonna win this one.
Haruhi: She was a great lawyer.
Tamaki: Everyone's outside waiting for us. We should probably get going. Don't you think?
That hurts. Are you okay, Haruhi?
Haruhi: I'm fine, but you're kind of heavy.
Ranka: I'm home, Haruhi. Hey why do you leave the door open?
Haruhi: Welcome home, dad.
 Mori: At that moment, her father came home...
Honey: from his shift at the tranny bar.
Mori: He saw his daughter pinned down...
Honey: or so it appeared...
Mori: forcefully being held...
Honey: or so it appeared...
Mori: by some strange boy.
Tamaki: Dad? You gotta be kidding. This transvestite is Haruhi's father?
Haruhi: So dad, how was work?
Tamaki: Just stay calm. It was an accident. I'm sure he'll understand if I explain what happened.
Ranka: I'm sorry. I hated having to leave you alone last night. You must have been lonely.
Haruhi: That sound. He hit really hard.
Ranka: Oh, dear, my left arm has been bothering me lately. It's so sore like I went hand to hand with some ferocious beast.
Tamaki: Please, sir...
Ranka: It's such a been way too hard. I could sure use a cup of hot tea about now.
Tamaki: Hot tea? I'll get it for you. Do you use firewood to boil water, Haruhi? Help me out. Your dad wants tea.
Ranka: Oh, my, would you look at that? I seem to come across a little pest. Would you like to tell me why you're addressing my daughter with such informality, young man?
Hikaru: Hey boss, what the world is taking you so long?
Kaoru: Oh, check it out. That person we passed downstairs was Haruhi's father.
Tamaki: Hikaru, Kaoru, help me out here.
Hikaru and Kaoru: It's nice to meet you, Haruhi's dad. We're good friends of your daughter's, the Hitachiin brothers.
Hikaru: So, you're a transvestite, aren't you?
Kaoru: You're the first real transvestite we've ever seen.
Hikaru and Kaoru: You finally put the moves on Haruhi, huh boss?
Hikaru: Sorry about him. He's a ladies' man if you know what I mean.
Kaoru: He's a pheromone machine. In fact, I bet he's fooled around with more ladies than you can count.
Ranka: He likes to fool around, huh?
Tamaki: No! I'm not a ladies' man. I'm a nice guy. I care about her.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Is he confessing his love?
Tamaki: I'm being completely honest here. I care about Haruhi like she's my own daughter.
Ranka; I get it. You must be the host club I've heard so much about. You certainly are a fine looking bunch of young men. I'm not sure which of you I like best. What about you, dear? I'll tell you what. Why don't you boys go ahead and call me Ranka? That's the professional name I use at the transvestite bar I work at.
Honey: Professional name? You mean like a stage name?
Ranka: Exactly like that, Mitsukuni.
Honey: Hold on, how did you know my name, sir?
Ranka: You two are 3rd-years Mitsukuni Haninozuka and Takashi Morinozuka. And two of you are 1st-years and in the same class as Haruhi. You're the Hitachiin twins. But I'm not sure which one of you is which. I've heard a lot about you.
Hikaru: What? So Haruhi told you about us?
Ranka: No, Kyoya told me about you two over the phone.
Kyoya: You know, you really are a beautiful person, Ranka.
Host club members: Say what?
Tamaki: Kyoya.
Kyoya: We've been entrusted with the care of his precious daughter. It is only natural that we introduce ourselves and give periodic reports. Ordinarily, that would be your job, wouldn't it?
Ranka: I'm impressed that the club has such a capable president. But wait a minute. You're only the vice-president, aren't you, Kyoya? I guess that president of yours is pretty much good for nothing, huh.
Haruhi: You never mentioned this to me, dad. Why didn't you say that you've been getting calls from Kyoya senpai?
Ranka: What am I supposed to do, Haruhi? You rarely tell me anything about school.
Haruhi: So that makes it okay to talk behind my back? Come on, senpai. Would you please stop growing mushrooms in other people's closets?
Ranka: Haruhi, the thing about you is you're cute even when you're angry.
Hikaru: I don't know what it is about him, but Haruhi's dad reminds me of someone.
Kaoru: This explains why she is so good at handling the boss.
Ranka: Wait, Haruhi. Where are you going?
Haruhi: The supermarket, all right? I have to go shopping and I wanna do it by myself. So all of you, just stay here and try to behave yourselves.
Hikaru: Wait. We want to go to the commoners' supermarket.
Ranka: I wouldn't push it. Once she's made her mind up, she'll never change it. When she decided she wanted to go to Ouran academy, she did all the enrollment paper work by herself. While I respect her independent spirit, I wish she'd be a little more dependent on me sometimes.
Haruhi! So, why didn't you tell me that today was "bring your parents to school day"?!
Haruhi: Sorry, dad, but I didn't tell you because I didn't want you to go!
Store Manager: What?! She's not going through a rebellious phase! Listen, I hate to be the one to break it to you, buddy, but I have a feeling she didn't invite you to school with her because she's embarrassed her daddy's a tranny.
Ranka: So, I like to wear women's clothing! What's it matter?! I'll never love anyone the way I loved Kotoko and she never had a problem with it! So lay off, would ya?!
Store Manager: Hey, Haruhi! I brought your dad home! He drunk himself stupid again.
Ranka: Hello my darling, I'm home.
Haruhi: You smell like a bar.
Store Manager: He's pretty upset about not getting to go to "bring your parents to school day" today. You should invite him next time.
Haruhi: I can't. I didn't invite you because you work so hard and I thought you can use the time off. I know that you're pretty tired, dad. So I thought you should use your day off to just catch up on your sleep. I want you to take better care of yourself.
Ranka: I hope you boys know how grateful I am. Since she found you, she seems to be happier. She is enjoying herself. Wouldn't you agree, Tamaki Suou?
Tamaki: You know who I am.
Ranka: Of course, I do. Haruhi's told me a thing or two about you. You're the host club's bumbling president, right?
Kyoya: So, she talks about the host club at home after all.
Ranka: Come to think of it, you're the one who didn't realize Haruhi was a girl until the very last moment? You're clueless, aren't you? Pretty pathetic. Now that we've gotten all the introductions out of the way, how would you boys like to have a little fun?
Haruhi: Why didn't he tell me? I have no idea that Kyoya senpai's been calling my dad and giving him update.
Hikaru and Kaoru: So we're going to follow her to supermarket?
Kyoya: This is what you meant by fun.
Ranka: Yes, I call it the stalking game.
Woman: What an attractive group of young men.
Woman: Do you think it's TV stars?
Ranka: In all honesty, I have a completely selfish reason for bringing you out with me. I want to be seen with a bunch of cute boys.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Sure enough. Those two are definitely cut from the same cloth.
Tamaki: Do you really think it's necessary to follow her around like this? Are you that worried about her?
Ranka: As you know, Haruhi lost her mother at a young age and afterwards she took on all the household chores and shopping by herself. I decided to start following her whenever she would leave the house. Maybe, I'm just being over-protective. I worry about her all the time. I'm the only one who can protect her, you know?
Haruhi: What the? Hey, what are you doing here, dad?
Ranka: Oh it looks like you caught me, Haruhi. I followed you here so I can carry your shopping basket. You know, how daddy loves accessories. Now why don't you just hand it over?
Haruhi: You're so weird.
Ranka: Either she doesn't know how to depend on others or she refuses to, she's always been so independent and so strong. And she has this uncanny ability to affect others without even realizing it.
Tamaki: That's true. I've seen it. I understand.
Ranka: What do you mean you understand? Don't think you're gonna win me over just because you're handsome. I'm warning you, I'm not ready to let go yet.
Tamaki: You could at least let go off my face?
Ranka: You've got some nerve. You barely even know Haruhi. That means, from this day forward, you're my enemy.
Haruhi: What the? Hey, what are you doing here, senpai?
Tamaki: Oh it looks like you caught me, Haruhi. I followed you here so I can carry your shopping basket. You know, how daddy loves accessories. Now why don't you just hand it over?
Haruhi: You're so weird. What's with the mushrooms?
Honey: Weee, faster, Takashi.
Kyoya: So, does double coupons mean I need two of them?
Hikaru: Ah, there's a whole stack of commoners' coffee.
Haruhi: Was there anything in particular you wanted to eat?
Tamaki: How about a stewpot? One with lots of meat in it, and no chrysanthemum.
Haruhi: That's a great idea. The stewpot would be good since we need to feed a lot of people. It's kind of warm for it, though.
Ranka: I know it's going to happen eventually. One day, my precious little girl will be all grown up and she'll want to have that special someone by her side... Just thinking about it gets my blood boiling. Here Tamaki, have some chrysanthemum, your favorite.
Haruhi: What's going on here?
 Hikaru and Kaoru: We didn't know you had a younger sister, boss?
Tamaki: As of today, I will be your big brother.
Haruhi: You know, you really should think before you make promises like that.
Haruhi: Next time, "Big Brother is a Prince".
Tamaki: The ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Host club members: We'll see you then.
Kaoru: And those go in the central building's main salon, okay?
Man: All right.
Kaoru: Hey, be careful with that.
Haruhi: Uh, aren't school fairs meant to be, I don't know, more about students proudly showcasing unique things they made by hand?
Kyoya: Perhaps for a mere average school, yes. But, at Ouran, the emphasis is on planning and leadership skills. Keep in mind. Most of our students are being groomed in the position of leadership, so they're required to showcase talent for proper mobility not arts and crafts.
Haruhi: Oh...
Hikaru: Whoa, whoa!
Mori: Nicely done. You handle the reigns like a pro.
Honey: Haru-chan!
Tamaki: Climb on board! We're rehearsing for the big Ouran Fair parade!
Girl: Oh wow, it's right out of a fairy tale!
Girls: How romantic!
Girl: Can we have a ride, too?
Kaoru: Hey, you know, you've gotten pretty good at this.
Hikaru: There's nothing to it. You should have practiced with me earlier.
Kaoru: Well, just because we're twins doesn't make both of us good drivers.
Honey: It's kind of neat having us all together like this for a carriage ride, huh?
Haruhi: Yeah, whatever...
Tamaki: Oh and for the actual parade tomorrow, we'll all be in 18th century french costumes. Your outfit will be especially opulent, Haruhi.
Haruhi: Oh, wonderful...
Tamaki: Ah, the Fair's Opening Ceremony has started. Let's make this Fair the best one yet!
Haruhi: Sounds good to me.
 "The Host Club Declares Dissolution!"
 Tamaki: Now remember, as part of the Fair, the Host Club will be opened to parents and visitors for the next two days, which means we will need to be even more charming than usual. Let's get out there and show our own guests the time of their lives!
Girl: Isn't is just wonderful, mother? This is the host club [I'm/I've been] telling you so much about. What do you think?
Mother: Well, actually I cannot say I approve of this. I think that these young men just enjoy being fond over.
Tamaki: You're quite right, madam. We're such shameless selfish creatures. All of this is mere pretense for spending time with lovely young ladies such as yourself. It is our weakness. Forgive me.
Mother: Oh, what enchanting!
Girl: I told you!
Tamaki: You're too kind, both of you.
Haruhi: Good grief.
Mori: Here, your button is mismatched. Allow me.
Honey: Thank you very much.
Woman: How adorable!
Woman: They must be brothers. The old one is so thoughtful.
Haruhi Wrong!
Hikaru: But, you see, our mother and father, both were so busy that they had no time for the two of us.
Kaoru: We played by ourselves, which is the reason we're so lonely now.
Women: Oh, you poor things.
Haruhi: You have gotta be kidding me.
Kyoya: One of our daily goals here at the host club is to evoke different time periods, so we make it a point to thoroughly research a wide variety of historical traditions in the interest of maintaining all intensity.
Man: That's quite impressive.
Haruhi: Yeah, quite impressively political... This is a bit too much even by our standards. You could buy a small country with all the money we're wasting.
Tamaki: What nonsense! That's not the Host Club way at all and you know it. Happiness is above any price tag. Besides, think of all the exposure...
Kyoya: No, Haruhi is right. You have overshot the budget.
Tamaki: Kyoya...
Kyoya: The use of the salon notwithstanding, you had a period style carriage shipped all the way from France. Must you always be so capricious? Your impulsiveness overwhelms my accounting skills.
Haruhi: Typical.
Tamaki: Whatever! Capriciousness is just another for creative! I have you know the whims of the host club king are the step of the dreams. No price is too high!
Haruhi: Welcome. Can I get anything for you, maybe, something sweet?
Eclair: You are the host club?
Haruhi: Yes.
Tamaki: Father!
Tamaki's father: Do not refer to me as Father. The term is far too familiar. You will address me properly as Chairman.
Kyoya: Ah, very good welcome, sir. Please let me show you to your seat.
Tamaki's father: Thank you. Kyoya my boy, if not for your being here, I'm sure this club would be a shambles. My son must give you no end of trouble.
Kyoya: Oh, on the contrary, sir. Your son's ambition is what keeps us viable. May I bring you anything? Yes, yes, of course. Haruhi, you're needed.
Tamaki: What?!
Haruhi: Oh.
Tamaki's father: So, you're Haruhi Fujioka. Come, sit with me.
Haruhi: All right. Thank you, sir. So, this guy is Tamaki senpai's father? Fine. They don't look all that much alike. Nice to meet you, Chairman I was just thinking earlier that I ought to pay my respects to you a long time ago. I'm so sorry.
Tamaki's father: You know, Chairman is so dry. Why don't you call me... yes.. Call me your Uncle. It would please me.
Haruhi: Wow, I guess the apple doesn't fall far from the tree after all.
Tamaki's father: I find that I'm just so busy lately that I'm seldom here in person, but I've certainly heard some wonderful things about you.
Haruhi: Oh why, thank you sir.
Tamaki's father: Ah, if ever you find yourself in trouble, I want you to know that you can come to your Uncle for anything.
Haurhi: Hey...
Tamaki: Father!
Tamaki's father: That's Chairman!
Tamaki: What do you think you're doing?! Remove your hands at once, please!
Haruhi: Kyoya senpai?!
Kyoya's father: Is this how my son has been wasting his time?
Honey: That's Kyo-chan's father, is it?
Mori: Yes.
Kyoya's father: You're an embarrassment to the Otori name. Suou, my friend, I'm sorry you had to witness that.
Tamaki's father: That did seem rather harsh, given how exceptional he really is. For a man with three fine young sons to carry on his legacy, your avarice would seem to run deep. I've heard about your trouble. Believe me, it's only a matter of time before the media gets wind of it. Please tell me you're not taking it out on your son.
Tamaki: Kyoya, are you all right?
Hikaru: Your dad is so mean!
Honey: You should never ever hit someone who's wearing glasses.
Kaoru: I don't think it's really about that.
Haruhi: Senpai, he wasn't upset with you because of the Host Club, was he?
Kyoya: Don't worry about it. It's not like I haven't been expecting this.
Tamaki: Because of the Host Club?
Tamaki's father: Whims have consequences, Tamaki. Take my word for it. They do not come cheaply for people like us. Accept it. Life is hard. It's time for you to grow up and realize that dreaming only postpones the inevitable.
Girl: Haruhi!
Haruhi: Coming! Thank you all so much for taking time out of your busy schedule to visit us today.
Tamaki's father: Start thinking about the future, son. If you plan on becoming head of the Suoh family, there's a long hard road ahead of you. You're going to have to live with the choices you make for the rest of your life. I advise you to think very carefully about what it is you really want, before it's too late. Now look sharp. Your grandmother is here
Tamaki: Grandmother! I'm so glad you could come!
Haruhi: Oh, that's so sweet. So, that's Tamaki senpai's grandmother?
Honey: I hate that woman.
Tamaki: Please come in. Take a seat.
Tamaki's grandmother: Don't patronize me. Filthy child. Lady Eclair, come over here for a moment, please.
Haruhi: Hey, I was just...
Hikaru and Kaoru: What?
Tamaki's grandmother: For the remainder of the day and tomorrow, you will be Lady Eclair's personal escourt. What's wrong? I gave you an order.
Eclair: Hello there, Tamaki.
Tamaki: Very well, Grandmother. I will do everything in my power to ensure her happiness just as you wish.
 Honey: Tama-chan isn't coming back, is he?
Hikaru: So, does he really plan to spend
Kaoru: The entire fair escorting some stranger?
Tamaki: Come, my princess. Let us be off.
Hikaru: Eclair, right? Or something like that.
Kaoru: Who is she to him? That's the mystery.
Renge: I can tell you.
Hikaru and Kaoru: Oh, Renge.
Renge: Eclair Tonnerre, she's the youngest daughter of the renown French Tonnerre family. They descend from royalty.
Kyoya: Indeed. The family has quite a history. Their wealth is something of a legend among financial heavyweights. In fact, just being associated with them makes you part of a very elite group. They also own Grand Tonnerre, a firm that's been buying up a lot of businesses in Japan lately. Of course, that doesn't explain why Lady Eclair has come here to visit Tamaki.
Tamaki: Isn't this charming? A picturesque gondola ride and artists' showcase all in one and everything you see here was created by members of the Ouran art club.
Eclair: How pedestrian. Clearly, the work of nerveses.
Tamaki: That was a bit harsh. What would you have me do? The students put a lot of hard work into these pieces. But you can go somewhere else if you like, my lady.
Eclair: Tamaki, I would like you to play the piano. For me.
Kyoya: Of course, that doesn't explain why Lady Eclair has come here to visit Tamaki.
Eclair: In here?
Tamaki: Oh, it is a music room, after all.
Eclair: So, this is the room where you and that precious little host club if you hold called, isn't it? I must admit it was impressive seeing your all action earlier. You must be very close.
Tamaki: Naturally. You know what they say that family put place to gather days together.
Eclair: Family. What a sentimental notion. I believe here in Japan, they referred it as playing house. You are so whimsical, Tamaki. I bet that they fall of themselves trying to keep up with you. Especially, that one with the glasses, the one that got slapped by his father.
Kyoya: Must you always be so capricious? Your impulsiveness overwhelms my accounting skills.
Tamaki: Could that be true? Is everyone making sacrifices just to keep me happy? Haruhi could be much closer becoming a layer right now if I hadn't forced her to be part of this club. She came here to study. But I've completely monopolized all her free time.
Eclair: Who is it?
Tamaki: Oh, Haruhi? What are you doing?
Haruhi: I just came back to change outfits. You were the one who wanted us to change costumes at least three times a day. Look, everyone is upset with you for disappearing on us like that. You should be with your club.
Eclair: My apologies. I'm afraid he belongs to me for the time being. Forgive me for asking, but do I detect him to jealousy?
Tamaki: Oh, Haruhi! So, is it true? Is it true? You're actually jealous?
Haruhi: Sorry, but no. I guess I'll be leaving now. Some of us have work to do.
Tamaki: Hey, wait a second. Haruhi!
Eclair: Please, you can't possibly be interested in a shrew like that.
Tamaki: My lady! I would appreciate it if you would not refer to my little girl as a shrew.
Eclair: Your little girl... They're not real family, Tamaki. So stop playing house.
Tamaki: What are you doing?!
Eclair: Wouldn't you prefer the real thing? Because I can give it to you, you know.
Girl: How dashing!
Girl: Oh my!
Honey: Haru-chan looks great!
Mori: She does.
Hikaru: Not bad. So, where did the Boss go?
Kaoru: He was looking forward to this the most.
Haruhi: Our king is lounging in Music Room 3. He's entertaining Lady Eclair.
Hikaru: Well well well.
Kaoru: Sounds like someone is a little jealous.
Haruhi: Like I said, I'm not.
Honey, Mori, Hikaru and Kaoru: Like you said?
Haruhi: Look. I- I just think that he's being even more irresponsible than usual today. You said it yourself, Kyoya senpai. He's impulsive.
Kyoya: True. He certainly is. But in this instant, he's obeying the whim of his grandmother.
Tamaki: Please come in. Take a seat.
Tamaki's grandmother: Don't patronize me. Filthy child.
Haruhi: Um, you know, now that I think about it, Tamaki senpai's grandmother seemed a little cold toward him earlier. Is there some special reason for that?
Hikaru: Well, everyone else knows about it.
Kaoru: See. Tamaki senpai is an illegitimate.
Hikaru: 20 summer years ago, the Suoh family patriarch died at a young age. For political reasons, Chairman Yuzuru was rushed into a marriage at the behest of his mother to a woman of her choosing. That's how he became head of the family. But several years later, the Chairman fell passionately in love with a beautiful young woman he met in Paris.
Honey: Not long after, Tama-chan was born.
Tamaki's father: No, mother, I'm leaving my wife. I'm going to marry her.
Kaoru: The boss's grandmother vehemently objected. Because of poor health, living in Japan proved too difficult for senpai's mother and so she raised him in France until he was 14. His childhood seems to have been a happy one. But as time wore on, the family business on his mother's side went belly up, and when they were forced into debt,
Hikaru: The boss's grandmother worried about there being no heir to carry on the family name came up with a proposal.
Tamaki's grandmother: I will provide you with a means to live comfortably for the rest of your days. In exchange, Tamaki is to come [to/and] live with me in Japan, without you. All contact between the two of you will be prohibited for ever. These conditions are non-negotiable.
Haruhi: Wow...
Kyoya: The current patriarch may be chairman Yuzuru Suou technically, but for the time being, all of the family's assets remain under the control of Tamaki's grandmother. What's more, with his mother's health being so frail, Tamaki understood the grim prospect facing her she would have to live in debt. So...
Tamaki: I decided. I'm going to go to Japan. It's all for the best. Just promise me, Mom. Promise me you'll take care.
Kyoya: Not long afterward, either out of anguish or just plain guilt of handing over her son away for financial security, Tamaki's mother left France in shame and went into hiding. Her current whereabouts are unknown. To this day, he's never seen her again, not once.
Haruhi in childhood: So, I won't get to see mommy any more?
Haruhi: I had no idea. He always seems so cheerful. Who would have ever guessed? If I were in senpai's shoes, I don't know that I could forgive my grandmother for something like that.
Kyoya: It's easy to feel sorry for him, but the hardships he endured as a child helped mold him into the person he is today. He'll be fine. The host club is his refuge, which means when it's all said and done, he still has us.
Honey: Tama-chan!
Tamaki: Everyone, I have an important announcement. As of today, Lady Eclair Tonnerre and I are officially engaged. Furthermore, the host club will be permanently dissolved after the Ouran Fair. That is all.
 Haruhi: To be honest, I used to think you were just the strangest bunch of misfits and loonies I'd ever met. I mean, serving as hosts in an after school club? Nest time, the final episode "This is Our Ouran Fair!" All of you, I...
Ranka: Haruhi? Are you sure you don't want any breakfast?
Haruhi: No thanks. Well I'm off then.
Kyoya: Welcome, Miss.
Eclair: I know you. You're the Otori family's son, aren't you? Unfortunately, you're the third son. So, you can never be the family successor.
Kyoya: What can I do for you today, Mademoiselle?
Eclair: You can tell me how much Haruhi Fujioka's still in debt for the host club.
Kyoya: Haruhi, someone to see you.
Haruhi: How are you today?
Eclair: I couldn't help to notice my Tamaki seemed to have a soft spot for you.
Haruhi: Just what are you getting at? Are you saying you're jealous of me?
Eclair: Oh, listen to you. Tamaki won't be coming today. I warned him that I would be upset if he ever showed his face at the host club again.
Honey: I wonder what happened to Tama-chan.
Hikaru: I'm getting worried. Something's up with him after what he said yesterday.
Tamaki: As of today, Lady Eclair Tonnerre and I are officially engaged. Furthermore, the host club will be permanently dissolved after the Ouran Fair.
Kyoya: All right gentlemen, no more idle chatter. Our guests are waiting for us.
Kaoru: Senpai, it's like you don't even care.
Kyoya: It's our job to take care of our guests to the best of our abilities. Remember, they're looking to all of us to entertain them. Their happiness is the utmost importance.
Honey: He's right, Kao-chan!
Kaoru: Honey senpai, what are you doing?!
Mori: Come on, Hikaru.
Hikaru: Let go, Mori senpai.
Kyoya: Thank you for all of your hard work, Haruhi. After that request from Lady Eclair, your debt has been paid. You finally repaid us for that Renaissance vase you broke. So you are free to quit the Host Club, if you want.
 "This is Our Ouran Fair!"
 Kyoya's father: When they're young, many assume they have all the time in the world, really. That is never the case Don't waste your time with something that will ultimately have no value.
Haruhi: You don't know anything about the Host Club. Kyoya senpai works around the clock to make sure that everyone here is enjoying themselves. And did you ever stop to think that entertaining others might give each of us some fulfillment? How can you possibly say that what we do here is just a waste of our time? I don't care what you say. I think Kyoya senpai is amazing.
Kyoya's father: I see. So that must be the honor student Kyoya told me about.
Tamaki's father: I'm concerned about outstanding of Grand Tonnerre. They recently even buy [up] Japanese companies right and left.
Tamaki's grandmother: Don't worry. Everything will be fine. Once we have an heir, the Suou family will prosper once again. After all, it's not like the boy can turn against us.
Tamaki's father: But Tamaki has never been interested in anything involved in the family. What have you done to change his mind?
Tamaki's grandmother: I told him that if he asks Lady Eclair to marry him, I would allow him to see his mother.
Tamaki's father: But you can't be serious.
Tamaki's grandmother Your child is having to make amends for the indiscretions of your youth, my dear son.
Eclair: Tamaki won't be coming today. I warned him that I would be upset if he ever showed his face at the host club again. Tell me. Are you Tamaki's lover?
Haruhi: No, Miss. Not at all.
Eclair: I see. That's good to hear. And I guess you must mean nothing to him.
Haruhi: While I may not be his lover, I know that I'm not nothing to him.
Eclair: I think it's best you'd not have any contact with your friends for a while. It'll make hard for you to leave. Come in.
Man: There is a visitor here to see you, ma'am.
Eclair: Please have them come in.
Tamaki: Mr. Otori, why are you here?
Kyoya's father: I should be asking you the same question.
Eclair: Don't you worry about him.
Tamaki: Sir, it's a pleasure to see you again. It's my fault that Kyoya joined the host club. I'm really sorry. But sir, I don't understand. What are you doing here?
Man: We're terribly sorry we had asked you to come all this way. I hope the trip hasn't burdened to you.
Kyoya's father: No, on the contrary, I'm always quite happy to avoid the press. For what I understand, my medical equipment company is about to be bought out from under me by Grand Tonnerre. And you know, it probably serves Kyoya right. The company I was considering handing over to him will forever be out of his hands now.
Eclair: Excuse me sir, but there's one more thing. I have a favor to ask you.
Haruhi: Kyoya senpai, what's with this outfit?
Hikaru: We told you, it's a costume for the special parade.
Honey: You look so cute, Haru-chan!
Haruhi: I don't understand. Why am I the only person dressed as a girl?
Hikaru: Oh come on. It's cosplay. So, it's okay for you to dress like a girl.
Haruhi: I am one, you know.
Kaoru: Well?
Kyoya: No luck. He's not there.
Haruhi: I can't believe senpai didn't show. I really thought he was gonna make it despite what she said.
Kyoya: Hello Shima? Been a while, hasn't it? It's Kyoya.
Shima: This is about Master Tamaki, isn't it? I'm sorry, Kyoya, but the Master will be departing for France soon. I tried to talk about it to do, but he said the Suou family had forgiven his beloved mother, and that he was finally granted to get to see her again. He also said that if he stayed at Ouran any longer, his capriciousness would only continue to make trouble for you and everyone else in the club.
Kyoya: How could he be so stupid? Evidently, Tamaki is planning to return to France.
Host club members: Huh?
Honey: Tama-chan is going to leave us?!
Hikaru: You're kidding me! They can't just end it so suddenly!
Kaoru: Hikaru...
Shima: Excuse me, sir.
Kyoya: Yes?
Shima: I was just thinking, if the Master's mother really is as remarkable woman as he claimed she is, then I can only imagine she would be upset with the manner in which the master has chosen to leave Ouran acadamy.
Kyoya: Do you know when he's leaving, Shima?
Shima: I'm afraid his flight is this evening.
Kyoya: Why is he leaving so soon?
Shima: He would've left sooner, but he said he had to wait until the Ouran Fair was ending.
Kyoya: Tamaki!
Honey: Tama-chan!
Kaoru: No way!
Hikaru: The Ouran Fair isn't even over yet!
Kyoya: My family's car should be in the parking lot! Haruhi, let's go!
 Kyoya: We're in a hurry. Can you drive us?
Man: I'm sorry sir, but...
Kyoya: What is it? What's wrong?
Man: Well you see, the thing is...
Kyoya: Do you want to tell me your orders? Let me guess. You've been hired to protect lady Eclair.
Man: I'm truly sorry it has come to this, but as you know, as members of the Otori Private Police, we answer to your Father.
Kyoya: Damn it!
Man: I'm terribly sorry sir, but we've been ordered not to allow any of you to leave, even if we have to stop you by force.
Mori: Hikaru, take the carriage. If you use the back hills bypass, you can cut them off.
Man: It's Haninozuka.
Man: And Morinozuka.
Hikaru: Come on!
Kyoya: Haruhi, go get that idiot. Hurry! Now go! This is your chance!
Man: Don't get stand there! Stop that carriage!
Honey: Takashi, don't go easy on them!
Mori: Don't worry, I won't!
Honey: I want you guys, picking on my friends is big no-no!
Kyoya: You should never underestimate the Ouran Host Club.
Mori: Yeah.
Kyoya: Hikaru, Kaoru, Haruhi, please bring him back.
Kaoru: Hikaru! Don't you think we should slow down!? Somebody could get hurt!
Hikaru: We're not slowing down until we get the boss back!
Kaoru: But Hikaru!
Hikaru: If it wasn't for Tamaki, then the two of us would still only be lost souls! We were able to become friends of Haruhi and the others because the host club brought us together! To think it would all end suddenly like this, is something that I can't tolerate.
Kaoru: No Hikaru! Hikaru, Hikaru! Hikaru, are you okay? Is your arm hurting you?
Hikaru: This can't be the end, boss. It's just not fair. The host club is the only thing that made us happy. Damn it.
Kaoru: Hikaru...
Haruhi: Well I'm off then.
Ranka: What? You can't talk to your dad about it? What's the matter, Haruhi?
Haruhi: What do you mean? I'm just not that hungry this morning, that's all.
Ranka: You can't fool me, kiddo. The last time you skipped breakfast was after your mother's funeral, and it was a while before you could eat again.
Haruhi in childhood: So, I won't get to see mommy any more?
Ranka: There are many things in this world you cannot ever change, no matter how desperate you try. Just remember, Haruhi. You have to stay brave even if it seems like your world is crumbling around you sometimes.
Hikaru: What is she doing?
Eclair: What's the matter, Tamaki? You haven't said a word since we left. You're a host, aren't you? Come on. Entertain me.
Tamaki: I have a question. Are you sure about this? [Are/Will] you [really/even be] happy to marry to me, or are you just following orders?
Tamaki: Haruhi!
Eclair: That's Haruhi Fujioka?
Tamaki: What are you doing, Haruhi?! This is dangerous! Stop the carriage, now!
Haruhi: Senpai! Please come back to Ouran!
Tamaki: I mean it! Stop the carriage!
Haruhi: All of us have completely lost without you, senpai!
Tamaki: But they... they also said they were put out by the host club.
Haruhi: You really are an idiot! What's wrong with you!? After all this time we've been together, you still can't tell if we're joking or we're serious!? Everyone loves being in the host club! We really do! Even me, senpai. I love being in the part of the host club, too!
Tamaki: Haruhi!
Tamaki: Haruhi!
Haruhi: Senpai!
Tamaki: That was reckless, Haruhi. You have to be more careful. Look, you're here soaking wet.
Haruhi: A little water never hurt anyone. Besides, people are always telling me that I'm dripping with good looks.
Honey: Tama-chan! Haru-chan!
Hikaru and Kaoru: Hey boss!
Kyoya: Oh man, he's such a moron.
Eclair: Let's go ahead.
Man: Miss Eclair, you've heard the stories that housekeeper tells back home, haven't you? The one who's always talking about her son who loved to play the piano for her.
Eclair: Is he really as sweet as you say he is?
Tamaki: Thanks, Eclair.
Eclair: I was going to give him the opportunity to see his mother again. He's such a fool. But even so, even for someone like me, he still smiled.
Kyoya's father: I'm sorry that we've caused you concern. It looks as though Grand Tonnerre will not be purchasing my company after all. An unexpected banker turned up. They bought the company before Tonnerre had a chance. And the banker said he would turn in all the management rights over to me.
Tamaki's father: That was a bold move. Which funds manager was it?
Kyoya's father: A student investor called K.O. He cleverly left his name out of the deal, but it didn't take me long to figure it out who it was. K.O. is Kyoya Otori. The new banker was none other than my own son.
Tamaki's father: At least, we know we don't have to worry about the future. I thought I knew how brilliant Kyoya was but it seems he's even smarter than I thought.
Kyoya's father: Maybe so, but I think your son is the one who's truely amazing. I am responsible for the entirety for Kyoya's education. I always knew he would surpass his older brother(s) some day. However, I must say I'm shocked. While I can imagine Kyoya taking over a company, I never dreamed he would turn around and give it right back to its original owner. As Kyoya grew up, I was constantly dangling the Otori family company in front of his face, torturing him with something he could not have. Now, not only has he taken it out from under me by force but he's basically told me he doesn't want it and thrown it back in my face. Do you understand what that means? It means he's finally found it. He's found something that has even greater value to him, and that's probably thanks to Tamaki.
Tamaki's father: Though our company sometimes caused us to compete, I think we'll get along just fine from now on.
Kyoya's father: Agreed. I think we can get along famously, just like our two sons do. I almost forget. There was one thing I wanted to run by you. That honor student girl. Haruhi Fujioka was it? I think she would make a wonderful bride for my Kyoya in the future. I just wanted you to know my intentions.
Tamaki's father: Well, unfortunately, it looks like we're not going together along after all. I'm sorry, but that's the one thing I could never allow, my friend.
Tamaki: Only those with excellent social standing and those from filthy rich families are lucky enough to spend their time here at the elite private school, Ouran academy. The Ouran host club is where the school's handsomest boys with too much time on their hands entertain young ladies who also have way too much time on their hands. Think of it as Ouran academy's elegant playground for the the superrich and beautiful.
Haruhi: Remember, you're welcome to visit us in music room 3 whenever you would like to.
Host club members: The ouran host club will be waiting for you.
Haruhi: And we want to thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
Host club members: We'll see you then. 