	“Starr,” Alnerki grabbed her arms firmly, preventing her from twisting away. “Starr, I’m sorry, but there’s nothing we can do. You have to let it go.” 
	“No!” she shouted. “Alnerki, please! We have to go after him! If he’s gone, Lyradis is forfeit. We have to rescue him. For Lyradis.” 
	Alnerki shook his head, a low growl of frustration in his throat. “Starr, I have one ship of men. One ship. There is no way I am sailing up the coast and invading the Regent’s Palace. It’s out of my hands. I’m sorry we can’t help your - friend - even if he is Elyan, but we have to be thankful you’re safe and out of harm’s way. But now we go back to Sancriest.”
	“You’re not even trying!” Starr was growing furious, and there were tears in her eyes. 
	“No, I’m not,” snapped Alnerki. “I’m D’nani. You’re D’nani. Think for a moment about our people instead of Eltanin’s. I can’t risk D’nani soldiers on a suicidal rescue mission. Your safety is enough. Be goddamn thankful.” 
	There were a million petulant replies tumbling in Starr’s mouth. She swallowed most of them, swallowed her frustrated tears. Cruelty may have tasted appealing, but she knew well enough the bitter aftertaste it would leave. Alnerki was only trying to help. He had done far more than she had ever expected. 
	Starr took a deep breath, her hands over her face covering the useless tears that stained her cheeks. Useless. So useless. 
	Alnerki, sensing he had won, released her shoulders slowly. He produced a slightly stained handkerchief, always the good older brother. “I am truly sorry, Starr. But it’s in the Gods’ hands now.” 
	Starr, dabbing at her eyes, looked up sharply. “The Gods?” she asked suspiciously. 
	“It’s an expression,” Alnerki said hastily. There was something in Starr’s face that worried him. 
	Instead, she smiled, wrung out the handkerchief and handed it back to him. “You never met Jiao, did you?” 
	“Who?” 
	“Easier to introduce you, than explain.” Starr glanced around the room. She wondered if he would hear her if she called. She rather expected so. Probably whatever he had given to her block Lynx’s mind magic carried its own subtle weights. Ironic, of course. Protecting her privacy while subverting it for his own personal reasons. No, the real question was whether or not he would help. He liked her well enough, he had made that clear. But by his own admission his feelings towards Lynx were complicated. 
	This is the part where I feel terribly silly if it doesn’t work, and Alnerki carts me back to Sancriest and locks me in a mental institution, she told herself. And, in case, the god was already listening in, she added, Please hear me, you jackass. “Jiao,” she said clearly. “I need you. Do you mind?” 
	A rustle of fabric behind them was the only indication of change. Alnerki and Starr both turned around hastily, to see a rather disgruntled Lynx standing there in full regalia. The Elyan looked at both of them, sighed, and removed his ermine-trimmed robe and hung it on the back of a chair. 
	“No, I don’t mind at all,” he said, his voice flat and sarcastic. “I was only running things.” He fixed Starr with a disapproving stare. 
	Starr fought to hide the embarassed flush that now covered her face. “Erm,” she said awkwardly. “Jiao, this is Alnerki, my cousin, L’rehan of the D’nani. Alnerki, this is Jiao.”’ 
	Jiao - Lynx’s face - brightened artificially. “Well, hello,” he said warmly and stepped forward. “Always a pleasure to meet Starr’s family.” Alnerki’s face had tightened in confusion and mistrust, his expression hardened to bloody murder when Jiao hugged him around the middle. He glared daggers at Starr. 
	Starr coughed slightly, her eyes never leaving Jiao’s face. Were Lynx’s eyes really that unnaturally blue? Or was Jiao taking creative liberties? 
	“Jiao,” she prodded, “do you mind? The guise is confusing things.” 
	“Oh, of course,” he said, releasing Alnerki. Lynx’s face dropped away, revealing the much shorter man she had come to identify as Jiao. He pushed his hands through his thick brown hair and cracked his neck from side to side. “Better?” 
	Starr nodded. “Alnerki, Jiao is -”
	Jiao grinned and held out his hand to the D’nani leader. “Please forgive the disheveled appearance. And the hug. I find it helps break the ice and gets all awkwardness out of the way. It’s a pleasure to meet you, L’rehan.” 
	Alnerki took his hand, and shook it. “I’m afraid I’m out of my depth here,” Alnerki said slowly. “This sort of magic is beyond my experience.” 
	“It’s beyond most, really,” Jiao said. “Impersonations aren’t really my thing. But lets just say I’ve been left to run everything while the real Lyradis al Rys goes off galavanting around the globe, having adventures and sleeping with women. And I’m left all alone in cold old Thamalia with a bunch of politicians who haven’t seen the bottom of a bottle since the Holy Wars. Typical.” 
	“You’re al Rys’ body double,” Alnerki said. 
	“Among other things,” Jiao nodded. “The least of my abilities, really. You’ve probably heard of me, in fact. I do get around. Alris Edonless, I was called. Taerren Iglades. Most people know me now as the Great Warrior. If you’re looking for divine assistance, I accept prayers addressed to the Great God.” 
	“I - a god?” Alnerki’s eyes had gone round as saucers. He looked like a kitten. 
	“The Great God,” Jiao corrected, kindly. “I realize there has been some debate as to whether or not I exist. I assure you, I do. I’m just stuck on the physical plane momentarily. A bit of an annoyance really. I’m sure you can sympathize.” 
	“Jiao,” Starr interrupted. Jiao was enjoying egging on Alnerki and she was desperate to stop it for her cousin’s sake. “Lynx is missing.”
	His eyes - yellow glass marbles - swung around to look at her. “So?” he asked. “What do you want me to do about it?”
	“Find him?” 
	“I’m a bit busy, Starr,” Jiao said, glancing ever so slightly at Alnerki’s face. “You two kind of left me with a country to run.” 
	“I know,” Starr chewed her lip. “But if we don’t get Lynx back, what is going to happen to Lyradis?” 
	A flash of annoyance crossed the god’s face, and for an instance she could image it was Lynx’s face again. Her heart leapt to her throat. There was a real possibility she would never see Lynx again. She wasn’t prepared. 
	“I’m not all powerful here, Starr,” Jiao said. “I can’t just whisk him away and drop him at your feet.” 
	“Well, why not?” Starr scowled. “You can hear me across huge distances and appear here instantaneously. It should be short work to bring him back.” 
	More annoyance. “One, because I won’t. I’m your God, not a genie. And two, because I don’t know where he is.” 
	“What does that mean?” 
	“It means there’s a gap in my knowledge. I honestly don’t know. He’s blocked to me, which probably means there’s another god involved.” 
	“Enaka,” Starr said, realization settling. 
	Jiao nodded. “You find her vessel, you find Lynx. That’s the best advice I can give you right now.”
	“Can you take us to her vessel?”
	“What kind of mystical all powerful being would I be if I could just fix everything at a whim?” Jiao said. There was some darker humour at play here, but Starr wasn’t sure she understood it. “No, there has to be arbitrary checks and balances to keep me from ever doing anything useful and being locked here for all eternity. I’m blind to the Goddesses,” he said. “They’re my jailers. I can’t move against them on this plane.” 
	“What about me,” Starr insisted. “You knew where I was.” 
	The god looked at her sideways. “Alterations have been made,” he said slyly. 
	Starr had forgotten how frustrating Jiao could be. She was regretting getting him involved. “What am I supposed to do, Jiao?” she said, voice rising. “Just sail back to Thamalia? Forget he ever existed?” 
	“Starr,” instantly he was by her side, kneeling down to look into her face, his voice kind. “I’m sorry I upset you. I was just teasing. No, you can’t sail back to Thamalia. You need him. Lyradis needs its king.” 
	
	“They’re rioting! The Sand Quarter is on fire.” 
	“A riot?! But why? I didn’t do anything.” 
	“Perhaps you should of. 	



	“A gem, yes.” It glittered on the leather between them, looking more like a shard of molten metal than any gem she could identify. “That one is Reesimah’s. Leave it to the D’nani to lock it up for safety, and let all of the wards on the thing itself disintegrate.” 
	“And they’re all like this?” Starr still refused to touch it, the red crystal with edges like glass and a slowly fading inner fire. To her it looked like poison. 
	A shrug. Inconsequential. “This is a crystal of fire. They’re each what you would expect them to be. Water shimmers with blue and green; Void is a mountain of shards within a stone egg. The Mind one was polished as a cabochon and set in the First Queen’s circlet.”
	Lynx’s face was slack and disbelieving. He had tossed the circlet to one side where it fell against a stack of books. When he retrieved it, the large opal glittered like a watching eye. 
	“This is Eltanin’s?” he asked. He snapped the circlet in two effortlessly and plucked the gem out with his fingernails. Starr winced as he threw the pieces aside, two broken halves of an ancient D’nani masterpiece. Good thing Alnerki wasn’t there to see. She would recover the halves later, and stash them under her mattress. 
	Lynx rubbed the smooth opal with his thumb, frowning. He held it out, reticent, to Jiao, who turned his face away as if he had been offered rotten fruit. 
	“What am I going to do with it?” Jiao asked. “It’s useless to anyone not touched by Eltanin.”
	“You’re a god,” Lynx said in disbelief. “Don’t you want it?”
	Jiao shook his head, slowly. “Keep it. It’ll amplify your power as long as the wards remain. Eltanin’s won’t be returning any time soon.” Lynx frowned and placed it carefully face-up on the desk where it winked at them with subtle, shifting colors like a soap bubble before it popped. Starr stared at it, her ears still ringing in a high, a tuneless wailing that she could only half convince herself she was imagining. 
	“Reesimah’s awake now, isn’t she?” Starr’s head felt heavy, the mass of new curls tied up and away from her face. She hadn’t even looked at them in a mirror yet. 

	“You’d stick your dick in anything warm and wet enough if it asked you to beforehand.” 
	He shrugged, not denying it. “A flaw for which I have been oft criticized. And yet I routinely find my bed free of companionship.” 
	“Through no fault of your own, I’m sure,” she retorted. She shook her hair back over her shoulders, a riot of tight, wiry curls that refused to hang anywhere but in her face. 
	Lynx watched her, but his smile was thin lipped. “Why is everyone so eager to peer into the remaining small privacy allowed to me? Are my most intimate moments some source of public failing? I would think I’ve performed above and beyond all expectations, and yet here I am, being interrogated by my closest friends.” When Starr had no immediate response, he continued. “If the tables were flipped, you would find it a gross misstep of my interest, no doubt.” 
	“You’re a man and my supposed better. One could only take it as an expression of interest on your behalf, or a statement of indictment.”
	He nodded, slowly, and sighed. “And you are my friend. Since there is no interest, there can only be condemnation. Allow me my privacy, Starr, and we may still continue our friendship.” 

	(Chapter 1)

	That was odd. 
	On the bottom left corner of the page, drawn in slightly smudged blue ink, was a stylized crescent moon in a square. Starr didn’t remember drawing it, and yet there was a pen in her hand and blue ink on her fingers. The rest of the page was filled with the stick figures that routinely replaced any effort to take notes in history class. Little stick mages fought imposing stick elves and and the battlefield was littered with ink blot casualties. The moon symbol didn’t fit in at all. She tried to draw the symbol again, meticulously copying the strange design. Instead her lines were shaky and the result was not at all pleasing. She scribbled out the copy and set about incorporating the original into a new wave of elves joining the battle.
	“AHEM.”
	Starr snapped out of her stupor to find the faces of her classmates turned expectantly towards her.  She covered the drawing guiltily and swallowed at the bald visage of Professor Rendis leering over her shoulder..
	“Could you repeat the question, sir?”
	“I said, perhaps you could tell us the name of Kan Makael’s General of War?” Rendis’ large, shiny forehead wrinkled in consternation. “Even you, Miss Starr, should be know the answer.”
	Starr shook her head. She hadn’t paid attention in Rendis’ class the entire year and wasn’t about to start now. 
	The professor sighed. “Very well. Yes, Ikaru? Would you care to provide the answer for your erstwhile classmate?” 
	Ikaru had the good grace to blush, even though his hand had been raised eagerly in the air practically since the lecture began. “General Taerren, sir,” he answered, the blush coloring his ears red beneath his dark hair. “He served Kan Makael until the Battle of Loredades, when he was killed.” 
	“Good. Nice to know one student pays attention in my class. Now, the military policy of General Taerren was followed through Kan Makael II’s reign, even though such direct action was inadvisable in a time of peace. The continuation of Taerren’s policy lead directly to the exiled Queens regaining political control of Lyradis only five years into Kan Makael II’s rule. But one thing with history is that it is always easier to make judgements three hundred years later than it is at the time.” 
	Starr watched, mildly embarrassed, as Ikaru nodded in earnest agreement with Rendis’ lecture before turning her attention to the dust particles illuminated by the light of the window. She had accepted long ago that most school subjects were just not her strong point, affecting a policy of apathy in most classes. It didn’t help that she was one of the state wards who essentially lived at the school. While other students went home for holidays, she was left with a few others in the drafty halls and vaulted ceilings. School was not interesting. School was life and had been for as long as she cared to remember. 
	The high point of her life at the Kan Makael Memorial Institution in remote, rural Shicero was her magic lessons. It was a surprise to all when her penchant for burning things in alchemy class turned out to be an unusual aptitude for fire magic. Surprisingly, Professor Alkine, normally more interested in his own research than the affairs of students, had taken her in and tutored her the past four years. Her daydreams of recent involved applying to the university in Thamalia when she came of age the next year. Too bad Ikaru was just as good at magic as she was and had better grades all around. She could care less about the other students, but Ikaru had always annoyed her.
	
	
	“Last class is over,” Jeanet grinned and stretched her arms above her head. She smiled at her two friends as they marched down the school hall. “What are you planning on doing during break?” 
	“Father wants me at home,” said Claron in her usual bored monotone. “He thinks government schools don’t teach proper manners.” 
	“Well, they don’t,” Jeanet said. “Just look at Starr. She fell asleep in every class today.”
	“Hey,” Starr said, feigning hurt. “Just because I don’t have a boyfriend who does all of my work for me. The rest of us had to stay up till early hours finishing that literature homework.” 
	“Starr, the last time you actually turned in a homework assignment was in the reign of the first Kan Makael.”
	Starr ignored Claron’s comment. “Seriously Jeanet, doesn’t Ikaru ever get tired of following your every whim?”
	“Nope. He likes it. It gives him something to do with that giant noggin of his.”
	“And there are other benefits,” Claron added.
	“That too,” Jeanet agreed. Starr snorted laughter. “Don’t laugh. I think he’s cute. You’re just jealous that I’m passing history and you’re not.” She threw a friendly arm around Starr’s shoulder.
	“I don’t know about that,” Claron said in her serious way. “Starr may still be pining after Thoriphes.”
	“I am not,” said Starr angrily, shrugging Jeanet’s arm away. “There was never anything between us. He almost got me expelled.” 
	“Framing your significant other for arson is generally a good indication of when a relationship has gone sour,” Claron agreed. She raised one dark, questioning eyebrow. 
	“You’re impossible,” Starr said, but she said it with a smile. 
	“So my last six boarding schools have told me. Father said if I get kicked out of here, he’s sending me to a textile mill in Thamalia, noble family or no.”
	“Don’t worry, Claron,” Jeanet pushed her blonde curls out of her eyes and smiled becomingly. “We won’t let anything like that happen. Not when break starts tomorrow at least.” 
	Starr turned her eyes away, but Jeanet noticed her anyway.
	“Starr, what are you doing for break? They’re not letting state wards stay here because of the Shicero Convention. Shame that they have to close the school, but they’re to use all the dormitories for housing.”
	“It’s embarrassing losing your home to a bunch of politicians,” Claron shook her head. “At least the Convention only takes place once every five years. Last time they used the Eorl Llyndwar’s mansion for it. He swore to never host it again after a the son of a Noble Lord did something unspeakable to his horses.”
	Jeanet laughed and Starr even smiled. 
	“Professor Alkine arranged for me to help him with some research over break,” Starr admitted, trying not to seem too excited. 
	“Well, that’s something! Alkine absolutely adores you, Starr. Ikaru heard him telling the Headmistress about your progress this year. I think Ikaru’s jealous.” Starr grinned at the comment. Making Ikaru jealous was always a good thing. 
	“If you’re here,” Jeanet continued, perching a thoughtful finger on her chin, “maybe, just maybe, you’ll get to see the king.”
	Starr squinted at her. “Why would I want to do that?”
	“He’s young! He’s gorgeous!”
	“He’s also an elf,” Claron remarked.
	“I can’t help it,” Jeanet sighed. “I have a thing for Elves. And His Majesty Lyradis al Rys is supposed to be superb. All that blonde hair and blue eyes. Yum.” 
	Claron hit Jeanet firmly on the head. 
	“King, huh?” Starr scratched her nose disinterestedly. “Did the queen marry?”  
	Jeanet and Claron glanced at each other. 
	“Starr,” Jeanet said seriously. “The queen died two years ago. It’s her brother who took over rule of Lyradis.”
	“Yes,” Claron said, peering at Starr strangely. “Where were you two years ago?”
	“Trying not to get expelled because of my ex-boyfriend,” Starr scowled.
	“I thought there was nothing between you and Thoriphes!”
	“There wasn’t! You know what I meant!”
	Jeanet and Claron just exchanged looks again.
	“What?” Starr said crossly. “What does that look mean?”
	“Well, she doesn’t pay attention in history,” Claron said. “Why should we expect her to pay attention to the current world either?”

(Chapter 2)

	The first morning of break dawned crisp and cool, indicative of the oncoming autumn weather. Starr waved goodbye to her friends and the other students at the school gate, explaining she’d be assisting Alkine with his experiments starting later that day. Claron was returning to her father’s estate in southern Lammark while Jeanet was going to her parents’ homestead, three villages away. Ikaru had promised to visit her there. Starr liked staying at school for holidays little, but enjoyed relying on the charity of her friends much, much less. Her actual enthusiasm for Alkine’s experiments was minimal - he tended to immerse himself in theoretical magic beyond her patience to understand - but she harbored a great deal of affection for the old man with a receding hairline and stuffy mustache. 
	She had been living at the school for most of her life, having been picked up off the street as a child. While the state-run boarding schools in each Ducdom of Lyradis doubled as orphanages, orphans were considered lucky to be consigned to education. Often, abandoned children were brought in for only short periods of time before being adopted or transferred to other institutions. The Shicero school was one of two remaining public schools for magic; most races preferred to tutor their own in separate environments. Ephiles, headmistress of the Shicero Institution, had shown an uncanny knack for predicting which orphaned students would prove magically talented and procured scholarships for them to continue under her tutelage. 
	Starr had the vaguest memories of parents - a woman by a stove and a man too tall to see his face - but whether they had abandoned her or died she never knew. It tended not to trouble her; she had friends and a life and aspirations. 
	She walked back up to the entrance of the school, avoiding the smooth groove in the stone steps worn by centuries of feet and slipped inside the huge double doors. Inside the marble entry foyer, people hired for the convention darted about, hurriedly setting up tables and signs and polishing brass doorknobs. Starr paused by a green granite column to watch the commotion, gray school dress demure and unassuming against the antique finery of the school. The ceiling here was a series of geometric wood inlays fitting perfectly into a carved dome. Eight years of rushing in and out of the foyer on the way to classes had made it lose its allure somewhat, but Starr still found it beautiful when the mood struck her.
	“Ah! Starr! There you are!”
	Starr jumped and stood straighter. “Professor Alkine!” she squeaked guiltily. “I was just on my way to find you!”
	“No need, no need,” Alkine stroked his mustache distractedly. “But I fear we must begin sooner than I thought! It seems a panel of this convention will discuss polar element cancellation! Everything needs to be set up and stabilized before the guests arrive, less they cause an elemental imbalance in the local ambiance. Come with me!” He raced off excitedly down the tiled hall, Starr struggling to follow his twists and turns until they ended up at the entrance to a familiar laboratory on the first floor. Starr stumbled inside, shielding her eyes from the glint of sun on glass.
	“Oh dear,” Starr said weakly. The amount of glassware on the black counters seemed to have multiplied overnight. “Where do we start?”
	Alkine handed Starr four round glass dishes, each with a hemisphere of a small, bumpy stone. The insides of each stone was hollow and covered with tiny, colorless crystals. Starr reached out to touch one.
	“Don’t touch!” Alkine said sharply and Starr withdrew her hand guiltily. “These are crystalized elements,” he explained quickly, pointing to each one in rapid succession. “Mind, water, fire, void. Being exposed to magic in such a concentrated form is never a good thing. Use caution when handling, less it upset your natural balance.” Starr looked wide-eyed at the crystals, impressed. Power like that was expensive. “With only fire and void between the two of us, we’ll have to adjust the balances in the spell to simulate elemental equilibrium,” Alkine continued. He began digging frantically through a stack of paper. “I suggest incantational titration to neutralize the composite element we create.” 
	“Erm,” Starr began, “how -?”
	“No time, no time!” Alkine flipped through the pages, scowled, and slapped his hand on top of the stack. “This won’t do! I’m sure I had experimental parchment here somewhere. Bother it all!” He glanced around desperately, eventually focusing on Starr still clutching the little glass dishes. “Will you be able to start the neutralization process without me? I really must find that parchment before the experiment begins. It’s essential to the closed-loop control links of the initial spell. I know Professor Shernin had some for his demonstration of externally maintained parasitic spells. He’ll want an arm and a leg for it, but it can’t be helped.” Alkine sighed and and glanced out the window. The large windows of the lab looked out over the manicured lawn, showing a leisurely trickle of horses and people parading up the long drive to the castle doors. Alkine groaned.
	“Oh, no, guests are arriving,” he frantically grabbed an old coat from where it was hanging by the door. “We have to hurry, Starr! I’ll be back in a tick! Don’t you worry!” Alkine rushed out into the hallway, still pulling on the sleeves of his coat.
	“Professor Alkine! Wait!” Starr stumbled after him. “I don’t know how to -” 	“I’ll be right back, Starr!” Alkine shouted over his shoulder. “I know you can do it!”
	He turned a corner and skidded out of sight.
	Starr stood, arms full, still not sure what had just happened. Incantational...titration? For a void-fire composite element? 
	Carefully, she stepped back into the lab. Carefully, she set the crystal dishes back down on the black stone counter. Carefully, she lowered herself onto a stool. 
	She surveyed the room. Something in a jar with too many eyes pulsed with a soft green glow. Other than that, the lab was unremarkable. 
	She had no idea where to start, much less what she was supposed to do. She could go after Alkine and ask for an explanation, but she doubted he would look kindly upon interruption. He tended to get caught up in his work and had little regard for the outside world. Instead, she might wait for him to come back, but knowing Alkine that might not be for hours, leaving her with nothing to do and no choice but to disappoint Alkine’s faith in her. 

(Stuff goes here)	

	The library was one of her favorite places, usually filled friends laughter during the day and studious scribblings at night. The center of the library opened under a raised dome, stained glass panels set around its rim. Most of the furniture here was old and solid wood; carved knobby ladders leaned precariously against the tall shelves. Now, the library was empty and the candles sat unlit, the books and chairs illuminated solely by skylights. 
	She paused at the entrance, a red velvet rope blocking the open door. 
	“Hello?” she called. She expected her voice to echo but it was oddly muffled by the presence of books. “Is anyone there?” 
	Silence. Starr glanced around, then slipped quickly under the velvet rope. 
	
(Stuff goes here)

	She scanned the shelf. A book promised 101 Easy Magic Experiments on its cheap yellow spine. She tipped it out with a finger and added it to her stack. 
	The hair rose on the back of her arms and neck. Starr froze. Someone was watching her.  She strained her ears for movement. Although the library was silent, the air was heavy with the distinct feeling of something there. 
	Slowly, shoulders tensed, imagining things lurking in the shadows behind bookshelves, she turned and looked down the isle. It was empty, but the feeling of being watched remained. Moving slowly towards the open space beyond the shelves of books, she stepped silently across the thick carpet, the sound of her heart and breathing pounded in her ears. Only a few more steps, then she’d be out in the open...
	She took the last few feet in a rush and jumped around to the other side of the shelf with a yell, leering out over the reading tables and isles. Nothing there. She glanced in the other direction, over the stack of books. Nothing there, either. 
	Frowning, Starr began to back towards the isle she had just come out of, scanning the library for movement. The vaulted room was still and silent and utterly deserted. She sighed, turned around, and collided with something heavy and warm.
	Starr shouted in surprise, dropping all her books and falling backwards to the ground. The thing she collided with shouted too and stepped away. It peered down at her curiously. 
	Standing over her was a tall, young man, his concerned face framed by a bushy mass of longish blonde hair. Out of his hair stuck the pointed peaks of his ears.
	An elf! Starr threw herself forward onto her knees and pressed her forehead to the ground. One always showed respect to the ruling race of Lyradis.
	 “I’m very, very sorry, your grace,” she said to the carpet. The elf’s boots were extremely shiny. “I wasn’t looking where I was going. Please forgive me.”
	“Your grace?” The elf seemed confused. “Are you referring to me?”
	“Yes,” Starr tilted her head uncomfortably to look up at him. “Aren’t you a noble?”
	The elf had to think about this. “‘Your Grace’” he said eventually, “is a form of address that refers specifically to a duc of Lyradis. But no, I’m not a noble.”
	“Oh,” said Starr, turning bright red. She sat back on her heels, feeling foolish. “But aren’t you...?” She fished about for words but instead mimed pointed ears in the air with her fingers.
	“An elf?” the elf supplied helpfully and Starr nodded shyly. “How very clever of you to notice. But not all elves are nobles.” Starr frowned at him, confused as to whether he was mocking her or not, but the elf had already paused to reconsider. “My father was one, if that helps.”
	“An elf?” said Starr ironically, still frowning.
	The elf raised one eyebrow. “A noble.” He knelt down, extending a hand to Starr to help her up. Starr blushed and quickly gathered some of the books she had dropped before standing up by her own accord. Disappointed, the man picked up a book off the floor and handed it to her. 
	“I apologize for startling you,” he said. “I thought I was alone.”
	“So did I,” Starr said. “I was only looking for books for my Professor.”
	“Oh? Are you a student here, Miss - ?”
	“Starr,” Starr said, and scowled. Her name was made fun of on a regular basis and she had come to hate introducing herself. The elf looked at her politely, his expression slightly bemused.
	“I was informed that all the students had gone home for the holidays,” he said, turning to inspect the books behind him. He ran his fingers over the embossed spine of a leather volume. 
	“Yes,” Starr said, and peered at him more closely. He had a very straight nose. 
In profile he looked suspiciously familiar and she could think of no reason why he should. “I’m a ward of the state. I’m assisting with research over the break. Are you here with the convention?”
	This question seemed to surprised him and he glanced back at her. His eyes were a remarkable blue, although overshadowed by thick, expressive eyebrows. His face would be haughty if not for a strange discoloration across the bridge of his nose. It looked as if dirt had been permanently smudged there. Starr found herself staring at it. “Yes, I suppose I am,” the elf remarked to the ceiling and did not say anything more.
	The silence was uncomfortable. “I’m sorry,” Starr said eventually. “What did you say your name was again?”
	“I didn’t,” he said, still to the ceiling. “I’m -”
	“STARR! There you are!”
	They both turned toward the door where Ikaru stood, looking disheveled and more than a little damp. He shuffled into the library, shaking flecks of water from his long  robe. 
	“I’ve been looking all over for you! Did you know -” he stopped short as he noticed the elf. “Oh! Hello, sir,” said Ikaru doubtfully. “Sorry to disturb you. Are you here with the convention?”
	The elf’s eyes widened and he looked questioningly at Starr. Starr shrugged under her books. “This is Ikaru. He’s also a student here. Although I had thought he was going home with Jeanet.” She squinted at him accusingly.
	“Er,” he said. “I was. But -- we had a fight. And she dumped water on me. So I came back here. I heard you were working with Professor Alkine over break and I was hoping...” Ikaru trailed off as he noticed Starr’s displeased scowl. He coughed. “But may I speak to you in private, Starr? It’s important.” 
	Starr glanced at the elf and he raised an eyebrow at her. “Please, don’t mind me,” he said. “I didn’t come to a library to be socially engaged.” 
	Starr frowned, but stepped aside with Ikaru, still cradling her books. 
	“What is it Ikaru?” she said crossly.
	Ikaru glanced over his shoulder. “Who is that? He looks kind of familiar.”
	“I don’t know. He’s just an elf.”
	“Elf?! He’s a Noble Lord?”
	“He says not. And how many Noble Lords do you see in libraries anyway?”
	Down the stacks, the elf chuckled. Apparently he had very good hearing. Ikaru and Starr swallowed and continued in lowered voices.
	“I really do need to talk to you Starr,” Ikaru whispered. “Do you know who’s here?”
	“No. Elves? Dignitaries? Please tell me, Ikaru, I am dying to know.”
	Ikaru ignored her sarcasm. “Thoriphes, Starr. Thoriphes is here. I saw him when I came in the back way.”
	Starr blinked several times. That was one she hadn’t expected.
	“Will you be okay?” he asked, watching her reaction. “I know you and he had a -- thing.” 
	“We did not!” snapped Starr. “Why does everyone say that?! I haven’t seen him since he tried to get me expelled.” She took a deep breath. “No matter, this convention is huge. I’ll probably never even see him.”
	Ikaru shook his head. “No good. He’s here as part of Artensia’s envoy.” Starr frowned skeptically. “Thoriphes may be a royal screw-up, but he’s good at what he does. And his father has holdings in Artensia. You won’t be able to avoid him unless you avoid the entire convention and even then he may come looking for you. Don’t do anything you may regret, please?”
	“I don’t need you to be my mother,” Starr began nastily. “Why do you keep bothering me?”
	“But - I’m your friend!” Ikaru was taken aback. “I’m just trying to help you.”
	Friend? Starr blinked. She had never considered Ikaru more than a rival - an annoyance. Why he would consider himself her friend was beyond her. He was always just there, like a piece of furniture or a rather dull bracelet hanging off of Jeanet’s arm. 
	Covering her confusion, Starr thrust the stack of books into his arms.
	“Hey, what - ?”
	“I suppose if you’re here, you might as well help me,” Starr sighed. Ikaru looked up suspiciously. “You can tell me the proper method of incantational titration for a concentrated composite elemental.”
	“Oh, that’s easy!” Ikaru said brightly. “You augment the solution with a complimentary primary -” 
	“Starr? Ikaru?!” a rather surprised voice called from the doorway. “What in the world are you doing?”
	Starr and Ikaru jumped and turned towards the double door. Headmistress Ephiles unhooked the velvet rope and swept towards them, a purposeful tower of severe hair and imposing green skirts. She was a tall woman and seemed to block out the light as she loomed above them. 
	“Starr,” she said sharply, looking over her round spectacles at the top of Starr’s head. “I told you to stay away from the convention. Does Professor Alkine know you’re here? And Ikaru! You were to spend vacation with Jeanet Jisseaux’s family. I remember signing the release forms.”
	“Headmistress!” Starr protested. “I’m not anywhere near the convention! There was no one here!”
	“Jeanet and I had a fight,” Ikaru said at the same time, “and I had no where else to go. I was hoping I could stay --”
	“One at a time, one at a time,” Ephiles held up a hand and sighed. “I don’t have the time to deal with you two right now, but Starr, Professor Alkine promised me he would keep an eye on you. I’m very disappointed that you managed to slip his watch.”
	Starr bristled at the unfairness of this accusation. She opened her mouth to retort. 
	“Please, Headmistress,” Ikaru stepped in before Starr could say something rash. “Starr was here doing research for Professor Alkine. He wanted her to learn incantational titration. Isn’t that right, Starr?” He elbowed her in the ribs.
	“Oh, right, yes. I was just looking up things for Alkine, Headmistress. I haven’t even seen any of the guests yet. Oh, except for that elf...”
	“Elf?” Ephiles said sharply, glancing around the library. “What elf?” 
	“He’s over there... Oh. No, he’s gone now,” Starr stared at the empty stacks. “He said he wasn’t a noble though, so it shouldn’t matter.”
	Ephiles adjusted her glasses and contemplated the empty library. “Indeed. Well, I’m afraid I can’t allow you to wander around without any supervision, Starr. We’ll have to find Alkine immediately. As for you,” she turned her spectacled gaze on Ikaru and frowned. “I can’t be your babysitter and you can’t stay without a chaperone. But Alkine is overly fond of his magic students, and I’m sure he wouldn’t mind one more...” she trailed off and shook her head. “I suppose you can stay, as long as Alkine consents to it. He is always bothering me for more assistants in his research after all.” She turned heel and marched to the door, pausing to glance back over her shoulder. “Come along,” she said. “I don’t have all day.”
	 Ikaru and Starr scrambled over themselves to follow, trying not to drop their books. 

(Chapter 3)

	By sunset of the next day, Professor Alkine was ecstatic. He clutched the piece of experimental paper as it glowed softly with tiny, intricate magenta symbols, waving it excitedly above his head as he danced from foot to foot in the middle of his laboratory.
	“My dear students! This is wonderful! I could have never done this without your help!” Alkine practically hugged himself, his mustache twitching joyfully.  “I do believe we’ve just found a way to efficiently balance a parasitic open-loop spell between multiple users! This is fantastic! You two will go far!”
	Starr and Ikaru exchanged smiles, Starr smirking triumphantly and Ikaru wearing a sheepish, lopsided grin. It had been Starr’s utilization of void magic to close the spell-loop that had caused the paper to glow, even if Ikaru was the one to successfully complete the incantational titration the day before. Starr felt proud - immensely so - and pride in her work was something she rarely felt. 
	“This calls for a celebration,” Alkine announced and skipped over to a supply cabinet. From it he pulled a dusty bottle Starr swore hadn’t been there the week before. He collected three clean beakers from the laboratory counter. “I hope you dears don’t mind,” he said, pouring a small portion into each beaker. “I have no idea where the real glasses made their way to.”
	Starr clutched her beaker excitedly. Never mind Alkine’s project was opaquely obtuse and more theoretical than useful. She had done something. 
	“Ah, this has been such a successful use of a break!,” Alkine sat back after a large swallow and stroked his mustache. “If only the Headmistress would let me take on assistants more often. Ikaru, I must thank you for sacrificing your holiday without being asked. And Starr - Starr! Where would I be without you? Certainly not nearly as far as I am today!”
	Starr beamed but Ikaru sat down on a lab stool and leaned in seriously. “Professor Alkine,” he said hesitantly, “I’m thrilled that we managed to get the symbology to work - amazingly so - but is this actually going to be of use to anyone?”
	“Of course!” Alkine’s mustache twitched. “Didn’t Starr explain it to you? No? It’s a balance of power! Imagine that you and your fellow mages must all channel into the same spell. Now you, being the gifted youngster that you are, are blessed with significantly more powerful magic than your classmates. You put an amount of energy into the spell that is relatively insignificant to you, but hugely significant to your classmates. The spell now expects that amount of power from all the mages attached to the spell. It either saps a greater amount of magic from everyone involved until it reaches equilibrium, or the spell breaks and you, being the last connected, are flooded with all the backlash from a multi-user spell!”
	“But there are ways to get around that,” Starr pointed out. “If each mage uses Erham’s Equilibrium while casting, the individual outputs will be equalized.”
	“True enough, true enough. But what we’ve just done is to place that mechanism within the spell itself. The spell regulates the power balance, no human error involved!” he chuckled to himself. “Of course, with the way we’ve designed it now, it is dependent on all users inputting the same type of element. Specifically void, as that’s what we humans have to work with. The next step will be to get the formula to inertly balance fire, water, mind and void all at the same time. Luckily Starr here has an aptitude for an element outside her race. Rare, but it happens occasionally. Now if only we had an Azore....and an elf...”
	Starr guiltily remembered her encounter in the library. “Are all elves nobles?” she said suddenly, surprised. She hadn’t realized it was bothering her.
	“Goodness, where does such a question come from?” Alkine said. Ikaru looked at her suspiciously. 
	“I met an elf yesterday,” she admitted. “He said he wasn’t a noble.”
	Alkine frowned. “Starr, you’ve already been reprimanded once by Headmistress Ephiles for wandering off. I don’t like where this story is going.”
	“Ephiles already knows about it,” Starr scowled. “This was in the library. I was looking up magical titration. I ran into the elf there.”
	“It’s true, Professor,” Ikaru added gravely. “I was there.”
	“Ah, well then. Can’t be helped. But no, Starr. Not all elves are nobles. How could they be? There are only 200 peers and over a hundred times more elves.”
	“Oh. Right,” Starr suddenly her beaker-portion of wine very interesting. She felt foolish.
	“If you’re interested in the noble families,” Alkine said kindly. “Headmistress Ephiles keeps the books of peerage in her study. I could go look the elf’s family for you if you give me his name.” He looked thoughtful. “Maybe he’d consent to be in my next experiments.”
	Ikaru stifled a laugh, turning it into a cough. Starr smiled weakly. “No,” she said. “I never got his name.”
	“Pity. But all’s well that ends well. I think you two should take tomorrow off, eh? Maybe even enjoy the convention a bit.” Alkine stroked his mustache. “Ephiles shouldn’t mind as long as you check in occasionally and stay away from any politicians.”

	Despite Alkine’s best efforts, Headmistress Ephiles had greatly minded the attendance of Starr and Ikaru at the convention, forbidding them from appearing anywhere near its grand events and meals. For breakfast the next day, Starr had been shuffled off to a side room and served only the bare basics from the school cafeteria. A bowl of porridge sat in front of her which she poked at suspiciously with a fork. Starr had hopped for something a little more edible during her day off, but the Headmistress was adamant in her decisions. Starr was permitted only in the places necessary for Alkine’s research and - by precious concession - the dealers’ hall where the local venders had gathered to sell things to those richer than themselves. She was relieved, secretly, for it gave her an excuse to avoid Thoriphes. She had a nagging suspicion that he would use his presence at the convention as an excuse to seek her out. Still, breakfast was breakfast, even if taken in a small side hall where the school staff ate, at a table piled high with books.
	The books had been a bad idea. Filled with purpose, she had planned to spend the day catching up to Ikaru. But now the smells and sounds of the dealers’ hall drifted down to her and she knew she would soon abandon her self-imposed studies to the promise of sight-seeing. Many of the merchants had brought their finest goods, from D’nani crafts to silks imported from Artensia. While the wealth on display could be nothing compared to that of Thamalia, the capitol of Lyradis where most of the Noble Lords haled from, Starr saw it as a chance for a little excitement in a world that normally held only monotony. 
	 She peeled the rubbery crust of the porridge away, revealing a substance that sloshed almost as porridge was expected to do. She took a drippy forkful of it and stared at it unlovingly.
	She felt the hair on the back of her neck rise. 
	Someone was watching her; there was pressure at her temples and a cacophonous pounding of her heart. The small hall was empty, she knew that, and there were no sounds other than the distant crashes of the convention. She took a deep breath. This was ridiculous. If Thoriphes wanted to stalk her, she’d rather he do it out in the open.
	“If you’re there,” she said crossly, “you’d better come out. I don’t like being spied on.”
	For a moment there was no reply. Then a shadow by the door shifted and the elf from the library stepped forward. 
	“Hello,” he said apologetically. “I really didn’t mean to spy.”
`	Starr blinked, surprised. She had completely forgotten the elf; her mind had been half filled with thoughts of Thoriphes. She swallowed indignantly, almost insulted that Thoriphes had yet to come find her. Her discomfort channeled into an accusatory glare. “But you were watching me.”
	“Yes,” the elf walked self-consciously over to where she sat and stared vaguely over the top of her head. “Miss Stair, was it?”
	“Starr,” Starr’s eyes narrowed. “Like the little twinkly things in the night sky.”
	“Oh, yes. Of course. My apologies,” his eyes turned to the bench and he regarded it with unease. “May I sit?”
	Starr waved a hand at him, but she watched him carefully, brow furled with distrust. 
	“Thank you. So,” he said, sitting and folding his hands on the table, “how long have you been at this school? You’re a ward of the state, correct?”
	“Yes,” Starr said. 
	“Are you an orphan, then?”
	“As far as I know. I was enrolled here eight years ago, when I was ten. I don’t remember much before that.”
	“And do you have any D’nani blood?”
	“No,” said Starr, taken aback. What kind of a question was that to ask someone at breakfast? “I’m full human.”
	“Your hair is an unusual shade for a human,” the elf pressed. “Are you sure? Any other D’nani traits? Are you a fire mage?”
	“Look,” said Starr crossly, “this isn’t really an appropriate line of questioning for someone I’ve met only once. I don’t have any idea who you are. You never even got around to telling me your name.”
	The elf looked surprised. “It’s Lynx,” he said unhappily.
	 “Lynx?” Starr blinked and looked him up and down incredulously. The smudge across his nose was still there. “Like the cat? The seal of the Great God and his followers? That kind of Lynx?”
	“At least I’m not named after a little twinkly object in the night sky,” he snapped, but took a deep breath. He smiled at her disingenuously. Nothing showed beneath the smile, only guarded control. Starr began to doubt if he had any personality, or if he did, it was buried too deeply underneath layers of circumspect vagueness. She was not enjoying this conversation; it was like talking to an extremely insincere couch cushion. Lynx - what kind of a name was Lynx anyway? - was too polite, too calm. 
	 “I only ask because you remind me of someone,” Lynx added. He tilted his head to one side with an apologetic smile. “So no fire magic? Not even a little spark?”
	Starr buried her head in her hands. “Fine,” she said. She wanted him to go away. He made her extremely uncomfortable. “I may be good at burning things. But I’m human. Not all redheads are D’nani, you know.”
	“I’ll keep that in mind,” Lynx said mildly.  	“Why don’t you go participate in the convention?” Starr suggested, wanting to be rid of him. “Find some D’nani to bother there.”
	“I honestly prefer the library,” Lynx said wearily. He looked down at the table and the stack of books and laughed humorlessly. “Funny,” he said. “I seem to keep running into you in the company of books.”
	“You were always more fond of the company of books than of the company of people,” agreed Starr, without knowing why. Silence descended. Her cheeks turned hot and she shut her mouth hastily. 
	Lynx slowly turned his face to her, eyebrows attempting to lift off his forehead, surprise and disbelief etched across his features. Starr had no idea where the words had come from much less why she had said them. She felt strangely violated, as if someone else had been using her mouth. She stood up suddenly to hide her confused embarrassment. 
	“Well then,” she announced a little too loudly, punctuating her words carefully. “I think I will go see what the dealers’ hall has to offer. I have finished with breakfast. I hope you enjoy your morning.” She nodded brusquely, turned, and strode purposefully to the door. 
	Lynx called after her to stop. He tried to scramble to his feet and promptly knocked half of the books to the floor. Starr didn’t turn. She walked faster, shaking slightly, out of the serving hall and into the corridor beyond. There, she broke into a run, sprinting down the long hallway in the direction of the great hall and the convention dealers. She ran desperately, skidding across the school’s polished stone foyer and through the double doors and into the great hall. 
	She plunged headfirst into the throng of multicolored people and smells. Starr frantically pushed through the crowds, knocking a man into a barrel of apples. She squeaked, more a sound of panic than an actual apology, and dove behind a stall selling jewelry made of small, pearly shells. The chaos was strangely reassuring, as if she had just awoken from a particularly upsetting dream. She peeked out from behind the stall, crawling on her hands and knees. 
	The elf was standing at the door, gazing in at the dealer’s hall. He looked singularly disappointed, but no one seemed to be paying him any attention. 
	“Hiding are we?”
	Starr sucked air in through her teeth and looked up. The owner of the stall she was hiding behind was regarding her curiously. She glanced back at the doorway, but the elf had disappeared. 
	“Miss,” the stall owner said again, practically laughing. “I don’t mind you using me for a hiding place, but when you’re done, would you mind buying something? Pretty necklace for a pretty lady.” He winked at her.
	Starr blushed fiercely but stood up and brushed herself off, ignoring the puzzled looks of strangers. She pushed all thoughts of the elf to the back of her mind. She did not want to think about him. She wanted him to go far away and not have to deal with him again. He was altogether too strange to be a part of her world. Surrounded by warm, interesting things and brightly colored people, he felt comfortably far off. 
	“I’ll have a look,” Starr said to the stall keeper, giving him a small, brave smile, “but I’m afraid your jewelry might make me stand out too much.”

(Chapter 4)

	Starr spent the next few hours wandering wide-eyed wonderment through the dealers’ hall. It was new and interesting and thoroughly distracting. Her arms were now so full of small purchases and free samples that she had difficulty moving without dropping anything. 
	A flash of kaleidoscopic color caught her eye and she shuffled over to a booth alive with tiny, beautiful birds held captive in a fine mesh cage. The birds buzzed with nervousness as she approached,  the iridescent feathers on their necks catching and reflecting the light. At first Starr thought they had no wings, just blurs of color by their sides. 
	The stall keeper was a tall D’nani woman with her brown-red hair pulled back at the nape of her neck and the ridges on her ears clearly visible.
	“I’m sorry, but you’re scaring my birds,” she said. “Could I offer you a bag for the things you’re carrying? That way the birds will know there’s a person behind that pile.”
	“Oh! Yes, of course. Thank you.” The stall keeper held open a string bag and Starr dumped her purchases into it gladly. The D’nani woman looked at her, slightly puzzled, and said something in a different language. 
	“Oh, no, I’m not D’nani,” Starr said hurriedly, clutching her bag. “I just have red hair.” 
	“Ah. You look like you have some D’nani blood in you,” the woman’s face was disappointed, but kindly.
	“You know, I’ve been getting that a lot recently,” said Starr. She started to move away. “Thank you for the bag.”
	“You don’t want to see my birds?”
	Starr flushed. “I couldn’t afford them. I’m sorry.”
	“That’s no reason not to look at them. They’re very rare this far away from the mountains. The elves call them D’nani Jewels. We call them shaeshin. Humming birds. They eat flowers.” 
	“They’re very beautiful,” Starr said. The birds appeared to be vibrating, the air filled with a low hum, and they turned their heads and long beaks to anxiously track any passing movement. Their small eyes glinted with the reflections of strangers.
	“That’s strange. I never fancied you a bird person.”
	Starr turned around automatically, before the familiarity of the voice registered. Her shoulders tensed. Thoriphes stood there, hands nonchalantly shoved into the pockets of a white coat gone dingy with wear. He grinned at her stiffly.  
	“Hey, star-bright. Haven’t seen you in a while.”
	Starr’s surprise melted into a scowl. “I’ve already said everything there is to say to you.” She gathered up her string bag and tried to push past him into the crowd. 
	“H-hey! Hey! Wait! Don’t be like that!” Thoriphes grabbed her shoulder. Starr froze, and fixed her stare purposefully on his hand. He took the hint, pulling back hastily, hands up in a gesture of submission. “I’m honestly not trying anything, Starr. I’m here on business.”
	Starr brushed at where he had touched her, disgust etched on her face. She paused, intrigued against her better judgement. “What business?”
	Beneath his lopsided hair, Thoriphes looked smug. “Surprised? I’ve got connections. I’m working for Artensia now. Under direction from His Grace the Arten Regent himself.”
	“As what? A janitor?” 
	“No! I’m a recruiter! A recruiter, not a janitor!”
	Starr looked him up and down, taking careful notice of his dirty coat. “You could have fooled me,” she said, and crossed her arms despite the bag. 
	Thoriphes looked over her head at the D’nani stall keeper. She was staring at them disapprovingly. “Strange,” he frowned. “You don’t see very many D’nani at state functions.”
	“Meh’Rog D’nani are still welcome in Lyradis the last time I checked,” the stall keeper said slowly. “The elves’ trade disputes are only with the Nog’Rog.”
	Thoriphes shrugged. “Can’t be expected to tell you people apart,” he said. He turned back to Starr. “Anywhere more private we can talk, away from Miss Ridges? I have a proposition for you.”
	“No, Thoriphes. I told you to leave me alone and I meant it,” she started to back away slowly, meaning to turn heel and bolt the opposite direction. Thoriphes’ eyes narrowed and he jumped towards her, grabbing her around the middle. Starr shrieked and elbowed him hard in the side of the head. He let go, stumbling backwards, but a look of ugly triumph on his face. He held up Starr’s string bag, smirking. 
	“You know what?” Starr said angrily. “Keep it. Think of it as a gift. I know how much you like fragrant soaps.” 
	Thoriphes looked at her suspiciously then peered down into the bag. His face turned bright pink. “Here,” he said, ashamedly, thrusting the bag towards her. “I’m doing this all wrong.”
	Starr hesitated, then took the bag out of his hands. She clutched it silently, not sure why she was still there. 
	“Just give me a chance to do my pitch,” Thoriphes said eventually, hands shoved embarrassedly into his pockets. “For old times.”
	Starr swallowed reluctantly. “All right, Thoriphes. Ten minutes.” 
	
	“...so my father sent me over to Artensia. He figured no one in Lyradis would hire me with Headmistress Ephiles’ vocal condemnation. And then, the Regent picked me up because of my age and my connection with the magic students on the continent,” Thoriphes paused and laughed. “You could almost say I owe all of my success to you.” 
	“That’s great, Thor,” Starr said distractedly, not really listening. “Fascinating life story.” They were passing by a vendor selling roasted meat on buns and her stomach was rumbling eagerly. It occurred to her she hadn’t had a chance to finish her breakfast. Thoriphes was watching her eagerly, as if waiting for her approval. Starr rubbed her temples, exasperated.
	“Did you want something from me, Thoriphes?” Starr said tiredly. She already regretted the decision to humor him. “I have other things I could be doing.”
	Thoriphes straightened. “Like I said, I have a business proposal for you. Artensia is currently interested in providing a new opportunity for magic users other than the University in Thamalia. If you swear fealty to His Grace, you will be compensated with room and board in addition to a wage for work completed and a personal allowance.” 
	“And what would Artensia want with magic users?”
	“The Artensian Regent has big plans, you know,” Thoriphes looked at her slyly. “He’s being privately funded by some of the human nobles. They’re particularly interested in people our age with magical talent. Void element has been diluted so much over the generations that very few of us remain with any sort of power to rival that of the other races. His Grace wants to insure the continued advancement of the human race.”
	“So the Regent is collecting human mages?”
	“You could put it that way, I suppose. Other races are not excluded. His Grace has interesting taste.”
	That did not jive well with Starr. “Would a majority of these mages happen to be female, Thoriphes?” 
	“Erm,” Thoriphes was suddenly very interested in a table piled high with intricate music boxes. 
	Starr’s temper flared. “Why don’t you go bother someone else, Thoriphes. Your ten minutes are up.”
	“Starr, I’m trying to be considerate here. I have a genuine chance for you, one that doesn’t involve the stupid elvan regime of Lyradis. This is an elvan school, remember? Remember how much we both hated it here? We wanted to get out. Well, I’m out, and I’m offering you a chance to come with me.”
	“What, by selling myself to the Artensian Regent? Thoriphes, you left me here. You burned down an entire wing and then told Ephiles it was me. That I was a crazy and emotional emotional; I was out of control needed to be locked up!”
	“At least they took you seriously after that. You have power, Starr! Do you honestly want to stay here and be one of those disgusting girls, with their disgusting little laughs and disgusting arranged marriages? You don’t have to be like them.”
	“And do what instead?” Starr turned on him. “Be like you? Throw my friends to the dogs at the first sign of trouble to save my own skin? You’re always rebelling against something, but why? For what purpose? It’s only gotten you a position as a low-down lackey in another bureaucratic regime. Hell, you didn’t even get a position, your father got it for you. So no, Thoriphes, I don’t want to be like you.”
	Thoriphes threw up his hands in anger. “Fine! I’m only trying to help you. Don’t go crying to me when the revolution comes.”
	Starr snorted. “You are such an idiot, Thoriphes. Stay away from me and my friends. I don’t want anything do with you.”
	“Funny,” Thoriphes was looking at her strangely, “that’s not what you said that one night in the stables.”
	Starr froze. “What are you talking about?”
	Thoriphes glanced around and moved close to her. 

(Stuff goes here, uh, I don’t really know what)

	Starr flinched, but something stopped Thoriphes’ hand. Ikaru had grabbed his wrist.
	“Is this man bothering you?” Ikaru asked solemnly.
	“Who are you? Who’s this?” Thoriphes wrenched his wrist away.
	“Ikaru!” Starr hissed furiously, a blush covering her face. “Get out of here!” 
	“Sorry, miss,” Ikaru said professionally. “I can’t do that. Sir, I’m going to have to ask you to leave the lady alone.”  	Recognition dawned and Thoriphes face lit up in a long, unkind grin. Ikaru surveyed him impassively. “Oh, I remember you now,” Thoriphes laughed nastily. “You’re that little pansy boy everyone always picked on. Ickyroo, right? How’s celibacy treating you?” 
	Ikaru’s expression did not change. He simply punched Thoriphes in the face. Thoriphes stumbled, caught by surprise. He put a hand to his face to survey the damage, but he was more dumfounded at the attack than actually injured. He turned, met Ikaru’s eyes, and slammed a fist into his stomach. Ikaru dropped to the ground, doubled over.
	“Psh,” Thoriphes wiped his hand on his trouser legs. “He’s soft. You’re soft, Starr. This entire place is filled with sheltered fools.” 
	Ikaru picked himself up slowly. He turned to Thoriphes, still clutching his stomach. 
	“Oh?” Thoriphes grinned. “Back for seconds?”
	With a yell of fury, Ikaru slashed at Thoriphes, fingers sparkling with void magic. Surprised, Thoriphes stumbled backwards to avoid Ikaru’s swipes. Ikaru paused, regaining his balance, and channeled his magic into tiny darts of air. Thoriphes frantically covered his face with his arms. Behind him, several ceramic pots shattered. 
	Starr dropped her bag and took off angrily towards the fray, fully intending to murder someone. She was stopped short.
	A gloved hand had grabbed her wrist.
	“Let go of me!” Starr yelled furiously, still trying to join the fight. “I want to kick that bastard in the balls.”
	“Don’t,” the person behind her said seriously. Starr spun around to find the elf from the library staring at her solemnly, firmly gripping her arm.
	“You! You’re following me!” Starr tried to pry the fingers from her wrist, enraged.
	“Why, yes, yes I am,” said the elf. “Now, come with me.” He tried to drag her away from the fight, through the crowd. 
	She resisted heavily. “I have had it with you people!” she yelled over the sounds of Ikaru and Thoriphes fighting and the agitation of the crowd. “Leave me alone! Is it so unreasonable to enjoy a day off without being stalked?”
	The elf stopped and glanced around. People were starting to notice them despite the commotion of the fight.  “If I say yes,” he said distractedly, “will you come with me?”
	“Absolutely not!” Starr said. “Let go!” 	“No,” said the elf, blue eyes narrowed.
	“I SAID,” Starr gritted her teeth. Her skin was starting to feel dangerously hot. “LET GO.”
	She clenched her fist and it burst into flame. The elf gave a cry of surprise but held on, leather gloves crackling with the heat. Starr tried again to wrench her wrist away.
	“No,” the elf said, pulling her back towards him. “Not until you come with me.” Starr stared at his wrist, taken aback. His hand had begun to glow with a soft white light, tendrils of which snaked down his fingers and slowly twined around her arm. The light pulsed steadily, growing a little with each fluctuation, pressing against her skin uncomfortably. Starr could feel it, feel its power -- pins and needles as if her limbs had fallen asleep. Frantically, she dropped her control over the flames, but the white glow continued advancing. The elf still held onto her.
	“What are you doing?!” she cried in panic, anger forgotten.
	The elf glanced down, his eyes widening as he saw the light. He tried to release her arm but seemed unable to. He looked up again. “Shit,” he said.
	“Stop it!” Starr cried. The tendrils were most of the way up her arm now, wrapping around her shoulders and encasing her neck. She twisted her head away, but the glow reached calmly towards her, obscuring her vision with an opaque white light.
	In the light, she heard voices. 

(Chapter 5)

	The light of his magic vanished as suddenly as it had come, the power returning to him with the force of a small horse at full gallop. Lynx staggered backwards, loosing his grip on the girl. The girl’s mouth parted, a wisp of white glow escaping from her lips, and she collapsed.
	Lynx dove to catch her, kneeling, nestling her limp form against his chest. He wondered absently if she was dead. The entire glowing tendrils thing had been a complete surprise; his magic had never done that to him before. He shuffled the girl in his arms worriedly, the hair falling away from her face. 
	 It was strange, really, how similar they looked. Different hair, different skin, sure, but the face shape was the same; the same undersized nose, the same determined mouth. He touched her upper lip cautiously. Good, still breathing. 
	The people around him were staring. He propped the girl up, trying to get to his feet, when the doors of the great hall blew open and a voice bellowed out across the commotion.
	“STOP THIS ABSURDITY IMMEDIATELY!” a severe woman swept into the hall, followed by several determined-looking elderly men. 
	The crowd fell suddenly silent. It melted away, revealing Thoriphes and Ikaru; Ikaru shielding himself with a chair and Thoriphes brandishing purloined cookware as a bludgeon. Both stopped and hid their items behinds their backs.
	The woman marched towards them, a tower of emerald green dress, skirts hiked purposefully above her pointed boots. Her hair was in a neat bun and her mouth set in a permanent frown beneath small round spectacles. Lynx struggled to his feet, still supporting the unconscious girl. Erect, he drew himself up to his full height, directly in the path of the severe woman.
	The woman stopped short. Her mouth twitched slightly and she bowed before Lynx; confused, her companions followed suit. “Your Majesty,” she said gravely, head lowered in respect. 
	The crowd broke into a jumble of surprised murmurs. One by one the assembled people bowed or curtsied, a current of confused concession. Even Ikaru made an attempt to bow, still encumbered by his chair.
	His Majesty Lyradis al Rys, King of Lyradis and Kan Makael III, sniffed haughtily, keeping his eyes on the woman in front of him. “Headmistress Ephiles,” Lynx said in his best condescending tone. He was caught. He was supposed to be in a meeting with the Shicero Minister for Agriculture, three towns away, and Ephiles knew it. Best to play his role and get it over with. “Arise and greet the King of Lyradis.”
	“Your Majesty, I must apologize for this egregious misuse of state facilities,” the headmistress stood, not missing a beat. “It is a huge disappointment to the administration of this school that such events would ever take place on our premises. I assure you, this abominable behavior will not be tolerated. If Your Majesty would so allow, please let me through to deal with my students.” Her eyes flicked over the girl’s unconscious form and the figures of Ikaru and Thoriphes. “Students and ex-student,” she corrected herself. “I shall be more than happy to accommodate your needs after punishment is dealt.”
	 Lynx sighed inwardly. D’li was going to kill him. “I shall not let the behavior of a few tarnish the reputation of your school, Headmistress,” he said dismissively, not really attending.  “There are, however, matters that I would discuss with you,” he hefted the weight of the girl in his arms, aware of the attention of the people surrounding them. Not only was D’li going to kill him, but Parliament would probably have a field day. “Privately,” he added.
	“Of course, Your Majesty,” Ephiles brought her glasses closer to her face, expression carefully blank. “May I offer you my private office in addition to your own suite?”
	“Thank you, Headmistress. That would do wonderfully. Would you - ?” he gestured awkwardly at the girl. Ephiles nodded to one of her companions - a professor, no doubt, with a tidy mustache and receding hairline - who stepped forward to receive the unconscious girl. 
	“Now then...” Lynx rolled his shoulders and looked out over the people assembled in the hall. The mob was mostly commoners with a few civil servants scattered in-between. A gleam of embroidery caught his peripheral vision; a cluster of lesser nobles huddled with their retinues in the back of the room. Lynx swallowed. Not good. Nobles here meant that word of his involvement would reach the ducs sooner rather than later. And he was going to be stuck here until he could resolve the unforeseen situation with the girl. He would have no chance for damage control. Hopefully the complications would be worth it if he could use the girl against Artensia. 
	Artensia...
	Okirun had sent an envoy here, hadn’t he? Lynx vaguely remembered being shown a guest list. But that frigid Azore woman wasn’t anywhere to be found and none of Okirun’s usual advisors had made an appearance. So who had he sent? Lynx’s gaze settled thoughtfully on Thoriphes.
	“Ephiles,” Lynx said slowly. The headmistress stepped forward. He motioned abstractedly at Thoriphes and Ikaru. “These....are your students?”
	“The small one is, Your Majesty” the headmistress said. Ikaru’s face colored and he stared at the floor. “The other one I had the great pleasure of expelling a number of years ago.”
	“But yet here he is...a guest in your school.”
	“Not by my choice, Your Majesty, if you forgive my insolence. He was sent as a representative of Artensia. I could hardly deny him entrance when your government saw fit to include him.”
	“Ah. An oversight. Forgive me,” Lynx paced steadily towards the young man, stopping mere inches from his face. The crowd flinched backwards away from them. Thoriphes stood frozen, not meeting the gaze of the King. “Your name is Thoriphes, correct?”
	Thoriphes mumbled something to the ground. 
	“You will address His Majesty with the respect warranted of his station!” Ephiles snapped, coming up behind Lynx. “Stand up straight! Chin up! Look straight ahead.”
	Lynx frowned at the headmistress. “Thank you, Ephiles. That will be all. Your name?” This close, Thoriphes’ hair was greasy and there were flecks of white along his scalp. 
	“Thoriphes Alderol, Your Majesty!”
	The surname was unfamiliar. Not a noble, then. “And you are part of Artensia’s envoy?”
	“I was sent as a recruiter, Your Majesty!”
	Lynx blinked in surprise. “Recruiting?” he said suspiciously. “Recruiting whom? Did you have a singular target?”
	“No, Your Majesty! I’m supposed to offer magic users an exciting opportunity on the Artensian continent.” 
	Then he wasn’t specifically after the girl. Lynx almost sighed in relief. “Where are the other members of the Artensian envoy, Thoriphes?”
	Thoriphes squinted around the room. “Not here, Your Majesty!”
	“Then where are they?”
	“They were at the pub in the village when I left them, Your Majesty!” 
	There was a smattering of giggles from the crowd. Lynx glanced up sharply and the giggles stopped. “Very well. I leave you in Headmistress Ephiles’ extremely capable hands. As for you...” he turned to Ikaru. “I do believe we’ve already been introduced. You didn’t strike me as the sort of young man who goes around causing fights in public places. And put that chair down already. Seeing you hold it like that making my arms tired.”
	Ikaru did as he was told. “Please, sir,” he began. 
	“Your Majesty,” Ephiles growled.
	Ikaru swallowed. “Please, Your Majesty. Thoriphes was making inappropriate advances towards another student. It was dishonorable.” 
	Lynx stared at him in vague disbelief. “You started a fight in the middle of a political convention over a matter of honor?” 
	“No!” Ikaru protested, but stopped suddenly, embarrassed. “Not my honor, Your Majesty. A girl’s.”
	The hall grew silent, air thick with pity. Someone coughed apologetically and Ikaru’s blush deepened.
	 “Any Queen will tell you,” Lynx said unenthusiastically, “that most women are more than capable of defending their own honor. You could have at least taken it outside.” He suddenly found this to be very, very boring. He clasped his hands behind his back and nodded at Ephiles. “Get this cleaned up. The convention will continue as scheduled. I thank you and Shicero for your continued support of the Lyradi government.”
	Ephiles bowed low to the ground, exposing the nape of her neck. Lynx took the opportunity to make for the door, people scrambling over themselves to genuflect as he passed. 
	“Your Majesty! Your Majesty!” 
	Ah, there it was. Lynx winced. So close to escape. He turned around to greet the small, congenial noble who puffed after him. The noble broke into a low bow, nearly overbalancing. 
	“Eorl Llyndwar,” Lynx said wearily. Llyndwar arose from his bow, adjusting his waistcoat. 
	“Your Majesty,” said Llyndwar worriedly. “I hope this has not affected your decision to hold public audience at the end of the week. Many of your subjects have been looking forward to the chance to pay respects to their king.”
	Lynx’s eye twitched. He had forgotten about that. He considered his options. 
	“Unfortunately,” he said eventually, “I fear I will have to cut my attendance short. A...pressing matter requires my attention in Thamalia. However,” he addressed the crowd, hoping to stymie the displeasure descending over the hall,  “I will be taking audiences for the next few hours in Headmistress Ephiles’ office. Please see her or one of her professors to arrange an appointment.” He gestured authoritatively at Ephiles, taking a moment of pleasure at her stunned expression before slipping out of the hall. The door closed behind him, blocking out the enthusiastic chaos of people mobbing the Headmistress. 
	There were more people outside the hall, bowing to him smoothly. Lynx nodded stiffly to each of them and proceeded down the corridor at a leisurely gait. When he had passed out of sight and out of mind, he slid around a corner into a deserted hallway, lost to view.
	There, he leaned against the cool stone wall, grinning. This jaunt to Shicero had proved much more entertaining than he originally expected. Never mind the boring meetings with eorls and thains; he could actually get something done this trip. And he had the perfect excuse to go home early. The nobles would hold his behavior against him - certainly - using it as further evidence of his irresponsibility and inability to rule, but they hadn’t been happy with anything he had done since the previous queen had died two years prior. 
	Two years was a long time. 
	Lynx ran his hands through his hair, nervously pulling the length at his neck over his right shoulder. D’li had been nagging him to cut his hair for almost a year now; perhaps it was finally time. The bushy yellow mass he sported was hardly confidence-inspiring. He looked more like the son of a wealthy farmer than a King of Lyradis. One thing he had discovered, first as a prince and then as a king, was that there was no freedom like the freedom of lowered expectations. He wasn’t even supposed to be at the convention until later in the week. The presence of the king or queen here was a formality more than a necessity; a chance for pomp and circumstance and for being in the public eye. Most of the actual law-making went on behind closed doors, in the dingy smoking parlors of the local nobles. Theoretically, his current schedule had him touring noble estates, bestowing his favor upon those who supported him politically before his public appearances later in the week. In reality, he had shirked his obligations as soon as the opportunity presented itself, sending his retinue ahead of him to keep the nobles occupied. Lynx considered political machinations thinly disguised as congenial teas and dinners absolutely useless -- a frivolous waste of everyone’s time and resources. He thought he had made himself extremely clear to Duc Landon and the human-dominated Parliament; his sister may be dead, but he would not be a puppet king. 
	Someone grabbed him by the ear.
	“Ow!” Lynx tried to balance on one foot and found himself very near to Headmisstress Ephiles’ face. “Stop that!”
	“I will not tolerate stupid pranks in my school,” Ephiles said slowly, “no matter who the spoiled little boy is that plays them.” She tweaked his ear painfully before releasing it and looked at him angrily over the top of her spectacles. “You were not supposed to be here for another three days.”
	Lynx rubbed his ear. “I could probably have you hanged for that,” he said sourly.
	Ephiles snorted. “You don’t have the guts, al Rys. You didn’t when you were a child and you still don’t. Why else would you go sneaking around in your own bloody convention.”
	“That’s not fair,” Lynx said unhappily. 
	Ephiles met his eyes doggedly. “I did not tutor you and your sister for eight years of my life to have you hide behind such panty-twissled concepts as fairness. Justice, Lyradis, or nothing. Now, what are you doing here?”
	“Nothing,” Lynx said. “I was bored.” 
	Ephiles smacked him with the edge of her hand. Lynx jumped backwards. “Al Rys,” she asked again warningly, “what are you doing here?”
	Lynx glanced left and right, looking for escape. He found none. “That girl,” he said. “Where did you take her?”
	“She’s in my office until she recovers,” Ephiles said. “Remarkably, being my pupil, she is my responsibility.” She pushed her spectacles up her nose. “Is that what this is about? That girl?”
	Lynx rubbed his neck and nodded. “Elania is dead.” he said quietly. 
	“I had surmised as much,” Ephiles said sourly, “considering the state funerals and the retched state the realm has been in.” She looked at Lynx’s miserable face and sighed. “But I am sorry for your loss, al Rys. Il Edanna was a wonderful girl, and the world will regret that she never had the chance to grow into a wonderful woman.”
	“Yes,” Lynx said quietly and lapsed into silence.
	Ephiles examined him carefully then turned on her heel and marched the opposite direction. She paused, her heels clicking on the polished floor and looked over her shoulder at Lynx.
	“Well?” she said. “Are you coming to my office?”
	“Not if you’re going to hit me again.”
	“Don’t be a baby, Your Majesty. And besides, all those appointments you asked me to make are waiting.” 

(Chapter 6)

	Starr sat up, screaming, and was immediately forced back down by strong hands. 
	“Please, Starr! Stay calm! You’ve had an unfortunate encounter with highly concentrated mind magic! You’re extremely unstable right now, so stay still!”
	Starr blinked up at the ceiling, trying to make sense of where she was. There was a mustache hanging over her, trembling worriedly. “Professor Alkine?” she asked, dazed. 
	“Thank the Goddesses! You recognize me,” said the mustache. Starr squinted and tried to turn her head.
	She was in an unfamiliar sitting room, filled with comfortable-looking teal furniture. Paintings dotted the dark wallpapered walls and the center of the room had a low sofa table covered with candles. She was lying on an overstuffed brocade sofa, thin quilt on top of her, and she had absolutely no idea where she was. She tried to sit up again.
	“No, no, dear,” Alkine forced her back down. “Stay lying down. How are you feeling?”
	“Fine,” Starr replied automatically. “Where is this?”
	“The headmistress’ private study,” Alkine said. “You were brought here after the episode in the great hall.”
	“Episode? Oh,” Starr shifted on the sofa uncomfortably. “Sorry?” 
	“No need to apologize, not your fault,” chuckled Alkine. “Although Ikaru and Thoriphes are currently facing the full force of Ephiles’ wrath. Be glad you’re off the hook.”
	Starr closed her eyes guiltily. “I should thank you, then.”
	“No, not me, dear,” Alkine said. “I didn’t do anything. Thank the headmistress and His Majesty when you see him.” 
	“His Majesty?” Starr frowned. Surprised, she propped herself up on her elbows. Before Alkine could push her back down, the paneled wooden door opened and the headmistress strode in. She was followed by the elf from the library, sulkily dragging his feet.
	“Starr,” said Ephiles, “how are you feeling?”
	“What’s he doing here?” Starr jerked her head at the elf and scowled, batting away Alkine’s attempts to make her relax.
	Ephiles raised a questioning eyebrow. “You know him?”
	“He’s the elf from the library,” Starr explained. She looked to Alkine for affirmation. “I told you about him. He came and found me at breakfast this morning, too.”
	Ephiles turned slowly to Lynx. “Al Rys, I fear I must object to you stalking my students like this. It’s not acceptable behavior for a person of your position.”
	Lynx crossed his arms and slouched stubbornly. “She’d never have known who I was if you hadn’t called me out,” he said.
	“I really don’t think that’s the point,” Ephiles said, faintly, clearly exasperated. Starr had never seen the headmistress back down from a scolding. 
	“What’s going on?” Starr said. “Who is he?”
	Ephiles cleared her throat. “Starr, may I present His Majesty King of Lyradis, Lyradis al Rys? Your Majesty, I believe you already know Starr, a ward of the state and a student of this school.”
	Starr looked at Lynx. Lynx bowed sarcastically.
	 “No,” said Starr in disbelief. “You’re kidding.”
	“I’m afraid not,” Ephiles sounded tired. The headmistress indicated a modestly sized portrait hung over the sitting room mantle. It depicted a young elvan lord in a long, fur cape, smirking quietly at the painter. Beneath it, a small brass plaque declared the subject to be “His Majesty, Kan Makael III.” 
	Starr compared the painting to the elf in the room. “That doesn’t look anything like him,” she accused. 
	“It really doesn’t,” Lynx agreed and the headmistress glared at him. “What? It doesn’t.”
	“If you have nothing to say to my student,” Ephiles said through gritted teeth, “then I think she should return her to her dormitory where she can recover in peace....away from any more disruptions.” 
	To Starr’s surprise, the elf tilted his head to one side, smiling gently. “There’s no call for that, Ephiles,” he said lazily. “I have business with your student that I prefer to address sooner, rather than later. I do believe she’s perfectly capable of having a conversation, no?” 
	Alkine cleared his throat. “I’ve examined her, Your Majesty. She’s sustained no lasting harm. A little fatigue, perhaps, but that’s all.”
	“I feel fine!” Starr protested.
	“Excellent,” Lynx nodded. “Then I will conduct my interview now. Professor, if you would please excuse us? You have been very helpful, but your presence is no longer necessary.”
	Alkine hesitated, glancing at Starr. “Please, Your Majesty, if there’s anything else I can do... I -- wouldn’t want anything to happen to one of my students.”
	“Thank you, Alkine,” Ephiles said quietly, gritting her teeth, “but you have no cause for worry. I am perfectly capable of protecting one of my students should the need arise. Your concern is duly noted.” 
	Alkine stood, bowed, and excused himself from the room.
	Lynx walked over to an armchair and sat in it as if he owned it.
	“Now,” he said, crossing his legs, “it has come to my attention that this young woman here may have an importance she is not aware of.”
	Lynx held up a hand as Ephiles began to protest. “Let me continue. You go by the name Starr, correct?”
	Starr looked questioningly at the headmistress. Ephiles’ lips thinned. “Please answer His Majesty’s questions, Starr. I’m sure all of this has a point.”
	Starr swallowed. “Yes,” she said, to Lynx.
	“And you were enrolled here as an orphan eight years ago, becoming a ward of the state and thus property of Lyradis until you complete your eighteenth year?”
	“I suppose,” Starr scowled. 
	“You also happen to have red hair and an aptitude for fire magic.”
	“So do a lot of people,” Starr glared at him.
	Lynx folded his hands in his lap and looked at her poignantly. “Most of whom,” he said slowly, “are D’nani.”
	“This again?” Starr snapped. “I’ve told you, I’m not D’nani.”
	“And I say,” Lynx was calm, his face expressionless, “you’re lying."
	“Your Majesty,” Ephiles stepped forward. “If you’re insinuating that I’m incapable of divining the heredity of students whom I enroll at this school, I fear I must protest.”
	“I’m not insinuating anything about your abilities, Ephiles,” Lynx said. “At least, not yet. But it is extremely important that your student be D’nani, Headmistress, because, you see, she can’t be human.”
	“I see no reason why not!” Ephiles stood up straighter, shaking slightly. 
	“But I think you do, Headmistress. You served as tutor to the royal family for eight years. You should be familiar with both the abilities and the appearance of the late queen, Her Majesty Elania il Edanna.”
	“Well, Headmistress?” Lynx pressed after Ephiles gave no sign of response. The woman was staring at empty space over Lynx’s left shoulder. “Would you be able to identify an individual identical in appearance to your previous pupil, Queen il Edanna?”
	“Yes,” said Ephiles. She made no other movement.
	“I don’t understand,” Starr said. “What does this have to with me being human?”
	Lynx turned to her slowly. His eyes were very blue. “You look remarkably like my deceased sister,” he said. “So similar in fact, that you could easily be her very obstinate, uncouth red-haired twin.” 
	Starr realized her mouth was hanging open slightly. She shut it.
	“This similarity,” Lynx continued, “is only possible because my sister, as Queen of Lyradis, was the mortal vessel for the elvan Goddess, Eltanin.
	“The consciousnesses of the four goddesses have been sealed away on the physical plane since the conclusion of the Holy Wars. The goddesses were placed into stasis inside mortal bodies, one for each race, thus insuring the balance of the four elements and helping to maintain the peace obtained at the end of the war. The connection to the goddesses has been passed down, from mother to daughter, for the past six hundred years. While the Holy Wars ended with the elves confirming their unquestionable right to rule, the vessel of the Goddess Eltanin is kept within the royal family, being passed down from Queen to Princess.
	“Unfortunately, this leaves three other vessels to be accounted for in the world at any given time,” Lynx rested his chin on his folded hands. “I believe that Starr is one of these vessels. Her appearance proves it. The magic that keeps the goddesses dormant is present in each of the four vessels; with each generation, the vessels become a bit more physically like each other while still maintaining the characteristics of their races.”
	“I look like your sister...therefore I must have the same magical connection that she had?”
	“Correct,” Lynx nodded. “However, if you were human, you would look unequivocally  human, as well as possessing a strong aptitude for the human void element. You do not; therefore, you are not human,” he leaned backwards in the armchair. “Not to mention that I already know the location of the human vessel. And yes, she could also be my sister’s twin.” He turned to Ephiles, who had been uncharacteristically silent. “Do you deny my claims, Headmistress? You were aware of the similarity when Starr was first enrolled here. It was why you fought so hard for her to remain under your tutelage, even when there are other public institutions better equipped to care for orphans.”
	“I...did recognize the similarity,” Ephiles bowed her head. “She does look remarkably like Elania.”
	“Indeed,” said Lynx. “Can you accept this, Starr? I think the evidence is relatively clear.”
	Starr felt very far away. She tried to organize her thoughts, but it was like thinking against a glass wall. “I look like the dead Queen,” she managed eventually, “and I have a goddess inside of me? The...D’nani Goddess?”
	“Yes and no,” Lynx said. “As far as I can surmise, the vessel merely represents a connection to the goddess, not the goddess herself. You serve as a very, very limited conduit for the divine to access the mortal world while dormant.”
	“But you’re still convinced I’m D’nani!”
	“Yes,” said Lynx. “I am. You can’t serve as the vessel for Reesimah without being of her people. I believe I can prove it, too.” He held out his hand. “May I see your hand?”
	Starr regarded him suspiciously. “The last time you touched me, I became uncomfortably intimate with a glowing white light, passed out, and woke up here. So, no. You may not.”
	“That,” said Lynx evenly, “was not completely my fault. Your hand, please.”
	“Your Majesty,” Ephiles interrupted. “Just what exactly do you plan on doing with my student?”
	“I may not measure up to Elania in terms of training,” Lynx sighed, “but I am a healer. I can heal physical and mental maladies. If Starr is D’nani, I can undo whatever was done to make her appear superficially human. But I fear I must press the seriousness of this accusation upon your student before I continue. Miss Starr, do you understand the implications of a D’nani student at a government school?”
	“What about it?” Starr said rebelliously. “Last I heard there weren’t any rules against being D’nani.”
	“No, of course not,” Lynx seemed slightly surprised. “But the Lyradi government has been in a trade dispute with the Nog’Rog D’nani for nearly ten years. The Nog’Rog have declared themselves independent and outside the jurisdiction of the elvan monarchy. For a Nog’Rog D’nani may be receiving governmental aid at the bequest of a public institution, specifically scholarships reserved for human students, is condemnable and offensive, not to mention illegal. Especially if the individual giving the scholarship was aware of the fraud,” he glanced meaningfully at Ephiles. “Now, Starr, please give me your hand.”
	Starr still hesitated. “It doesn’t matter,” she said, “because I’m not D’nani.”
	“Then you should have nothing to lose by letting me see your hand,” said Lynx, unconcerned. “And this can all be declared some sort of freak accident of the universe and we can all go home. Your. Hand. Please.”
	Starr put her hand in his automatically. Something in the way he said it made her comply without a second thought. Lynx took her hand in his, turning it this way and that, inspecting the palm and the dirt under her fingernails. He settled his attention on the back of her hand, fingertips tracing lines over the top of her knuckles. His touch tickled and Starr tried to jerk her hand away.
	“Hold still,” Lynx said and frowned in concentration. 
	Slowly, Starr became aware of a pleasant warmth pooling at the tip of her fingers. It spread through her hand and up her arm, relaxing her, warming her muscles. She rolled her neck, inviting the warmth, enjoying a comfort in her own skin she rarely experienced. It expanded agreeably through her chest and down her middle and she curled her toes lazily. She felt utterly at ease. Then suddenly, the warmth was gone. Lynx had taken his hand away.
	“As I said,” Lynx regarded her with a self-satisfied smirk, “D’nani.”
	“Hmm?” Starr felt relaxed and sleepy. She looked distantly at her hand. It didn’t look any different. 
	“I suspect your hair and skin will darken over time,” Lynx said dismissively, “but the ridges are there.”
	Ridges? Ridges where? Starr reached up slowly to touch her ears.
	“It seems you experienced extreme trauma as a child that you connected with your D’nani identity,” Lynx was saying. Starr was not attending. Her fingers were resting on the tips of her ears. “And you simply chose not to be D’nani any more. A good portion of your lifeforce was going to maintaining a physical transformation; I simply unblocked the link.”
	Starr was trembling. The tops of her ears, where previously smooth, were now covered with distinct edges, rough to the tough. “What,” she said quietly, “did you do to me?”
	“I did nothing that you hadn’t already done to yourself,” Lynx said, slightly surprised. 
	“Nothing?!” Starr yelled, getting to her feet. The thin quilt fell to the ground. “You did this to me! You changed my ears!”
	“Me?!” Lynx stood as well, glowering, a good head and a half taller than she was. “You’re D’nani, you fool! Why do you think you have fire magic?!”
	“No! I’m human! I have human friends! I go to human school! I don’t believe you! You’re trying to trap me!”
	Lynx’s eyes narrowed and his jaw clenched. “I don’t think you understand,” he said eventually. “I am your King. You are a ward of the state. I’m the state. Me. You belong to me. You are not going to be doing anything, anything, that I don’t want you to do.”
	Starr stopped. Her mouth had gone suddenly dry.
	“Additionally,” Lynx continued, his voice a low hiss, “I have the ability to bring extremely unpleasant legal consequences against you and this school. The headmistress has been abusing government funds. At the very least she should be removed and the school shut down pending investigation. That means all of your home and all of your little human friends are going away, thanks to you. And as a D’nani in a government institution, you will be tried - and possibly executed - as a spy.”
	“I am not D’nani,” Starr said angrily.
	“And I’m the King of Lyradis. It won’t matter to a tribunal if you don’t think you’re D’nani; you look it. And there is no way in seven hells I am going to change you back.”
	“You’re mad,” Starr said.
	“And you’re D’nani, even if you don’t accept it,” Lynx folded his arms. “There is another option, you realize, if you choose to be agreeable. Come to Thamalia as the D’nani vessel. Support the monarchy in the court there. You will be provided for, your safety is ensured, and your school need not face unfortunate legal consequences.”
	“Thamalia?!”
	“Your Majesty, are you sure -”
	“It comes down to two options,” Lynx continued, ignoring both their protests, “both of which I am entirely in my right to demand. Either you’re treated as a D’nani criminal and you enter my custody as a prisoner and or you come to Thamalia under my protection as the D’nani vessel. So what will it be? Prisoner or royal guest?It shouldn’t be a hard choice to make.”
	“I - I -”
	“Starr,” Ephiles interrupted suddenly. She had been uncharacteristically silent through Lynx’s tirade. “Take His Majesty’s offer.”
	“What?” she said dumbly. “No, Headmistress! I can’t! He’s --!” 
	“Your Majesty,” Ephiles turned brusquely to Lynx. “I humbly request a word alone with my student, given that the current circumstances affect the both of us. I wish to advise her in her decision.”
	Lynx frowned. “All right,” he said. “But I warn you, both you and your student are in an extremely delicate position. I will not tolerate any false moves.”
	Ephiles crossed her arms. “May I ask a favor of Your Majesty? As your childhood tutor?”
	“I suppose,” Lynx said warily. “What is it?”
	“Take the stick out from your royal arse and stuff it. Now, leave me to speak with my student.”
	Lynx grinned wryly. “Of course, Headmistress. Far be it from me to intrude where I’m not wanted,” he lifted one eyebrow ironically. Ephiles continued staring at him, unamused. He gave a heavy, theatrical sigh. “I shall retreat outside, should you need me, waiting in absolute enthrall for your decision. It shouldn’t be a difficult one.” He walked to the door, unperturbed, and shut it behind him, leaving Starr and Ephiles in silence. 
	“Starr,” Ephiles began, “you need to take His Majesty’s offer.”
	Starr’s cheeks were flushed with anger and betrayal. She said nothing.
	“Please, listen to me Starr. I am your Headmistress; even as it is is my responsibility to rebuke you for failure, it is also my responsibility to ensure your success. There is no other way for you, for us, for this school. Al Rys will ruin us if we don’t. He is a member of the Royal Family and used to getting what he wants. If you refuse him, I cannot protect you. Are you listening, Starr? Take His Majesty’s offer.”
	“You knew,” Starr said angrily. “You knew all along and would leave me to the mercy of the Elves.”
	Ephiles sighed. “I didn’t know,” she sat down carefully on a sofa, back strait, and smoothed her skirts. “But I did suspect.”
	Starr put her head in her hands. A sob escaped from her mouth and she furiously bit her lower lip. 
	Ephiles crooked her head at her pupil. “I know...I know this is difficult, Starr. And I have done nothing to make it easier for you. I had hoped merely to ensure your safety, to protect you from those who would use you.”
	“Does that include His Majesty?” Starr said bitterly. 
	“I must admit, I did not foresee the path that history has taken. His Majesty Lyradis al Rys was not who I had first and foremost on my mind. But it was always a possibility the Royal Family would try to claim you,” she grew silent. “I had thought that one day you might be contacted by the D’nani, by your tribe. If that ever came to pass you would at least have a choice in your future.”
	“I am not D’nani,” Starr had nothing much to hold on to.
	“That may be so,” Ephiles said slowly, “but it also may not be your choice to make. Lyradis has thought to give you a choice, I’ll say that much for him. You can walk into his trap with your head held high or you can be dragged there, taking everything from your old life through the mud with you.”
	“Then I don’t even have a choice! I can’t let him destroy you and the school!”
	“As I recall, a few years ago you and your friend Thoriphes were adamant in that very pursuit,” Ephiles’ mouth twitched. “I’m touched you’ve had a change of heart.”
	“That’s not what...” Starr moaned and gave up. She put her head back in her hands.
	“What is it that you want, Starr? Do you want to stay here, in this school, with its stone walls? Do you want to continue being a particular gifted orphan under Alkine’s tutelage? Underneath the boredom, you chafe here; I’ve seen it. Do you want to be educated, be married, be trapped in a different way? ”
	Starr looked away. “I wanted a future,” she said quietly. “I was going to apply to the university when I graduated.”
	“Starr,” Ephiles sighed. “I am trying to tell you something. Do not discount the consequences of your actions, yes, but also think of yourself.  Even if you chose to fight His Majesty, there are more effective ways than outright opposition. Figure out what you want, Starr. In the end, your choice will effect you the most.”
	“I just hate being trapped,” Starr’s voice was barely a whisper. 
	The Headmisstress looked at her. “I quit my employment in Thamalia tutoring the Royal Family when Queen al Elricia invaded Kolouric, Starr,” she said, “and I will tell you this: Even though there is a difference between dignity and outright stupidity, to us, at the moment of aggression, they feel exactly the same. It hurts, Starr, to have yourself trampled. What matters is how you respond to it.”
	“I--,” Starr began to argue, but stopped and swallowed. She stared at the ground, silent. 
	“Will you take His Majesty’s offer?” 
	“Yes,” Starr whispered. “I will.”
	“Good,” Ephiles stood and moved to the door. “Then I have one more demand to make.” She threw the door open. Beyond, Lynx was sitting in Ephiles’ chair, feet on the desk. Ephiles’ mouth twitched.
	“Oh?” Lynx said, having to the courtesy to sit upright. “Have you come to a consensus?”
	“I believe so, Your Majesty,” Ephiles said gravely. “But my student is still hesitant to give  up her life here.”
	“You’re serious?” Lynx stood, one hand pressed to his forehead. He groaned. “What is it you want, Ephiles?”
	“I believe Starr was making plans to apply to the university in Thamalia after her graduation here. She’s unhappy that you’ve curtailed her plans for the future.”
	“Oh, is that all?” Lynx laughed bitterly. “That can be arranged.” He looked past Ephiles to Starr, still sitting in disbelief on the couch. “Once again, will you accept your roll as D’nani vessel and accompany me to Thamalia?”
	“Your Majesty,” Starr stood and attempted to curtsy. She felt stunned. “I will be honored to accept your offer of hospitality.”
	Lynx, to her surprise, did not look at all smug. Something passed over his face, something dark and unhappy. “Glad to hear it,” he said. 

(Chapter 7)

	 Starr awoke on the brocade sofa for a second time, neck stiff and clothing rumpled. She had stayed under Ephiles’ watch for the night - the Headmistress did not trust her not to bolt in the night and leave the school to its fate. While the unfairness of the guard irked her to no end, she had guiltily complied; running away had crossed her mind. Although the impetuousness of such action appealed to her, she quickly discarded the thought for its impracticality,. Where would she go? To the D’nani, she supposed, but even that had too many unknowns. Why would they accept her as one of their own? She didn’t even accept herself. 
	She sighed and swung herself off of the sofa. After a half-hearted attempt to smooth her hair and her wrinkled dress, she gave up and tried the heavy door to Ephiles’ office. 
	It was locked.
	Disbelieving, she tried the knob again, only to have the door rattle mockingly in its frame. She pounded on the door with one fist, then both, and then yelled her head off. 
	The lock clicked and the door swung outward, revealing a very perturbed Ephiles. 
	“Really, Starr,” she sniffed. “You’d think the world was ending.”
	Starr looked at her accusingly. “You locked me in,” she said.
	“Of course,” Ephiles retorted, as if it were obvious. “His Majesty’s orders. And you’re going to stay under lock and key until he leaves for Thamalia.”
	“Ephiles! That’s not fair! ” Starr protested. 
	“Headmistress Ephiles,” the Headmistress corrected. “And no, no it’s not fair. Not particularly. But remember that the truest test of our character is how we behave in the face of adversity.”
	Starr stared at the Headmistress as if she offered a dead rat.
	Ephiles sighed. “His Majesty is set to leave on the morrow,” she said. “I’ll have your things brought here so you can pack.
	“Tomorrow?” Starr’s mouth went suddenly dry. “But that’s so soon!”
	“It’s my impression that His Majesty wishes to return to Thamalia as soon as possible,” Ephiles frowned. 
	“What about my friends? What about Professor Alkine?”
	“I’m sorry, Starr. It’s not in my power to change His Majesty’s wishes. You’ll have to take up your complaints with him.”
	“Then where is he? Let me out so I can knock some sense him, Ephiles!”
	“Headmistress Ephiles. And that might not be entirely wise, Starr. Al Rys dislikes being reprimanded. Now, is there anything else?”
	“Yes,” Starr said automatically, wanting a fight. Ephiles looked at her rather sharply and she thought better of it. “No,” she admitted, defeated.
	“Then leave me to my work, Starr. Although His Majesty has effectively forgotten, I still have an entire convention to run,” Ephiles closed the door and Starr heard the key turn in the lock. 
	Half an hour later, Starr was banging on the door again. 
	“Yes?” Ephiles opened it, unamused. “What is it?”
	“I’m bored,” Starr complained. “There’s nothing to do.”
	Ephiles stared at her blandly and then closed the door in her face. 
	
	When the door opened again a school’s maid came in carrying a tray laden with breakfast and a stack of books. Starr jumped up eagerly to meet her, taking the tray and placing it on the nearest table. There was a folded note on the top book. 

Starr,

Although I have passed your complaints onto His Majesty, I cannot promise anything. The only advise I can offer is this; try not to make him any more angry than you must. I know you are upset but do consider the consequences of your words and actions. Given time, your opinion of al Rys may change for the better. In the meanwhile, these volumes are some of my favorites. I think you’ll find them useful in dealing with your current predicament. 

Best,
Headmistress Ephiles 

	Starr tossed the note away and looked through the titles, any enthusiasm evaporating as she read their spines. Holy Wars: The Advent of Elvan Politics in Lyradis was followed by Economics of Kan Makael. Every volume was a book on history, a subject she avoided if at all possible. She sighed, picking up Racial Relations of the Last Century, and plopped down on the couch. Boring books were better than no books at all. Breakfast forgotten, she began to read. 
	
	Somewhere in the back of her consciousness she heard the door creak open and footsteps enter the room. Starr had been trying to puzzle out a particularly complex sentence and could not be bothered to look up. Someone cleared his throat. 
	“Just leave whatever it is on the table,” Starr said absently, turning a page. 
	Her statement was followed by a lengthy pause. “I take it your reading is fascinating,” Lynx said eventually.
	Starr flushed at his voice. His Majesty had made the effort to come and talk to her. She hadn’t even expected the courtesy. A sudden rebelliousness bubbled up inside her and she purposefully kept her eyes trained on the page.
	 “It’s rather boring,” Starr said haughtily, waving a hand dismissively. “A lengthy diatribe on the unfairness of Elvan rule. You know. Standard stuff.” She made a show of stifling a yawn. 
	“Indeed,” Lynx’s gaze lingered briefly on the abandoned breakfast tray and the stack of books. “You’ve spoken with Headmistress Ephiles, then?”
	“Yes,” said Starr. She carefully put the book down on her lap and folded her hands over it. “I was under the impression you were busy. Was there something you wanted from me?”
	Lynx frowned. “A little politeness wouldn’t hurt.”
	Starr sniffed. “I’ve decided I’m only going to treat you with as much respect as you have me. Right now, that isn’t very much.”
	“Oh?” Lynx grinned nastily. “Are you rescinding on our bargain?”
	“No,” Starr said. She sat up straighter, staring him in the eye and despising everything about him from his self-possessed smirk to the stupid smudge across his nose. “Even if I follow you, it doesn’t mean I have to like it.”
	Lynx shrugged. “Suit yourself,” he said darkly. “I warn you, though, things will be different in Thamalia. I will not tolerate behavior that jeopardizes my work.”
	“And what work would that be? According to Ephiles you do practically nothing.”
	“Sometimes nothing is something,” Lynx said mysteriously. 
	Starr refused to be drawn in. It just wasn’t worth it. As far as she knew, he existed just to goad her. She was better than that. She wouldn’t let him get to her.
	“It doesn’t matter,” said Starr. “But I do have a problem to discuss with you.”
	“I’m listening,” Lynx sat down in the arm chair next to her, slouching until his head was barely above the back of the chair.
	“I can’t leave tomorrow,” Starr said. “It’s too soon.”
	“Why ever not?” Lynx eyed her. “Ephiles had no problem with it. As I understand, all the legal matters are taken care of.”
	“What about my friends?” Starr insisted. “They won’t even be back from break for another week.”
	Lynx shrugged. “You have ink and paper. Write them a letter.”
	“That’s not the same!”
	“Look,” Lynx leaned tilted his head to one side, expression unamused. “Have you called me here to complain about saying goodbyes or is there a real problem? I do have important duties, you know.”
	“Duties? What duties are those?” Starr crossed her arms over her chest.
	“Kingly ones,” Lynx raised an eyebrow. “Now, is there a problem, or isn’t there?”
	“I don’t want to leave,” Starr replied stubbornly. “Not yet.”
	“Unfortunately,” Lynx said, “you have to.” He looked very bored. “I’ll tell Ephiles to bring you some paper. Anything else?”
	Starr threw her book at him. He dodged it easily and watched it hit the wall behind him, then turned back to her unhappily. “I’m not going to enjoy this trip very much, am I?” he asked.
	“No,” Starr said. “Not if I can help it.” 
	“What makes you think I won’t just toss you into prison the moment we reach Thamalia?Or gag you just drag you there?”
	“You wouldn’t,” Starr muttered.
	“Oh?” Lynx sighed humorlessly. “Do you care to try me?”
	Starr’s eyes met his and she pursed her lips together. She swallowed, slowly, and took a gamble. “You wouldn’t,” she said defiantly, “because I look like your sister.”
	Lynx eyes widened. He opened his mouth and then closed it again several times, looking severely puzzled. Eventually, he found words. “Tell me,” he said politely, folding his hands in his lap. Although he appeared unfazed, the pitch of voice was slightly too high to be perfectly calm. “Did you ever learn how my sister died?”
	Starr said nothing. She had no answer that did not make her seem more ignorant than she already felt.
	Lynx smiled kindly at her speechlessness and stood up to leave. Starr watched him stand, his small, sad smile reigniting her desire to punch the elf in the face. 
	“We leave tomorrow before breakfast,” Lynx said. “I will be extremely displeased if you prove difficult. I think,” he said eventually, cocking his head to one side, “that this will be a most interesting trip.”

(Chapter 8)

	Starr gave the remaining books a cursory flip but found them uniformly dense and uninteresting. None of them covered topics any more recent than the breakdown of relations with the Nog’Rog D’nani. Ten years out of date told her nothing about how the previous queen had died.
	Lynx’s comment worried her, hinting at something dark and unpleasant, but she could find no evidence to corroborate her uneasy feeling. The books were unhelpful and interviewing Ephiles yielded no results. The Headmistress simply dismissed her concerns. 
	“Ignore al Rys,” Ephiles said, shuffling a stack of papers and frowning at the top one. She dipped a pen in red ink and began to correct it. “He has a strange sense of humor. He’s simply trying to scare you into behaving.” She paused, looking at Starr over the top of her spectacles. “I do hope you behave. Your stubborn streak will be received poorly in Thamalia. Politicians like to think they excel at subtlety.” 
	“But how did the queen die?” Starr persisted. “Why is there a king?”
	“Honestly Starr, I knew your grades in Rendis’ class were dismal, but I thought it reflected a lack of interest not a lack of intelligence. Al Rys is on the throne because there were no close female heirs to take over after Elania il Edanna’s death. It was quite a scandal at the time. The nearest female cousin was a black elf. Parliament decided they’d rather have the throne in the hands of a pure blooded elf than an unknown female.”
	“But who would want to kill Queen il Edanna? She was only queen for two years.”
	“Less than that, really. And honestly, Starr, her death was not anything as glamourous as you’re making it out to be. She was killed after her engagement to the Artensian Regent - a half elf. There are plenty in this world whom would kill to keep the royal bloodline pure. They feel any dilution will disrupt the elvan connection to the goddess Eltanin. There were a few people captured and tried after her death, but as far as I know, no confessions obtained. But if you’re looking for some dark conspiracy,” Ephiles added sharply, “you won’t find it in il Edanna. I assure you, anything insidious would have been brought to light. Elania was much loved by the people who knew her.
	“His Majesty is probably just trying to warn you, Starr. Power and position are no guarantee for safety. Even as there are those that lament the absence of the goddesses from the mortal plane, there are those that would like to remove their influence from our world forever. Be careful in Thamalia. Even queens and goddesses can be killed.” 
	Starr left the interview feeling less informed and a great deal more unsettled. 

	That night, she dreamed. 
	She was herself in the dream, but she wasn’t. She sat in a gilded chair and people bowed before her, bringing her their problems and their insincere praise and their thinly veiled threats. She listened to each of them in turn, growing more and more worried. 
	“I can’t help you,” she tried to explain to them. “This is just a dream.”
	They insisted she could. Nervously, she twisted the ring on her left hand. Her skin was calloused from the ring sitting there. 
	“I’m sorry,” she said. “I’m not who you think I am.” She tried to stand up and leave, but people with blurred faces forced her sit back down. She struggled against their hands. 
	“This isn’t real!” she told them. “This isn’t me! This isn’t even my ring!” She fought to get the ring off, to throw it away. 
	In the dream, the ring came off her finger, but she didn’t throw it. Something caught her eye, something etched inside the band. A small, perfect moon in a square. 
	The dream changed. 
	Everything was bigger. She was smaller.
	She was sitting next to a fire, the flickering light warming her face in the night air. There were other people beyond the fire, chattering wordlessly while the light danced on their blank faces. A boy with orange hair and dirt on his shoes sat next to her. She handed him a scrap of paper with a drawing of a moon on it.
	“It doesn’t even look like your name,” she wrinkled her nose at the boy. “It just looks like a moon.”
	The boy scowled. “It’s not supposed to be my name. It’s supposed to be symbolic. Elves like that sort of thing.”
	“You’re a liar. You just made that up.”
	“Did not,” the boy sniffed, with dignity. “You just don’t understand.”
	Starr opened her mouth to reply but she was sitting alone by the fire. The people and the boy were gone, replaced by darkness.
	“No,” she said. “I don’t understand.”
	She hugged her knees in the dark and empty world and waited to wake up. 

	“Wake up.”
	Starr opened her eyes and looked up into the face of a man with startlingly blue eyes and unkempt yellow hair. She tried to shout, but he put a hand over her mouth. 
	“I don’t like waking up early any more than you do,” Lynx said unhappily, “but there’s no reason to yell about it.”
	Starr pushed his hand away and wiped at the corners of her eyes. Images flashed through her head. She grasped at them half-consciously, but they slipped through her fingers. “You startled me,” she said blearily. “I was dreaming.”
	Lynx glanced around the room. It was not yet dawn; the only light came from the dimly glowing sky outside the paned windows. “I told you we were leaving before breakfast. Why aren’t you packed?”
	“I am,” Starr yawned. She pointed at a small bundle by the foot of the sofa. It contained her only change of clothes and her favorite book, purloined from the library. 
	Lynx regarded the bundle dubiously. He was wearing travel-stained clothes; a tight leather jerkins and canvas breeches. Even his hair was less tidy - the yellow mess covered the tips of his ears from view. He looked more a farmer’s son than the king of a kingdom. The only sign of wealth was a jeweled sword slung low across his hips. “Alright then,” he said after a short while. “Let’s go.”
	“Wait,” Starr recovered a packet of letters from her pocket and set them on the table. She had written to her friends, trying to explain what happened. She hoped they would understand. She rather thought they wouldn’t. 
	Clutching her bundle, she followed Lynx out into Ephiles’ office and into the dark hall beyond. The castle was quiet, the first sounds of morning movement still contained behind walls and closed doors. A faint smell of sausages wafted up from distant kitchens. 
	“That’s an interesting sword you have there,” Starr said, conversationally.
	“What?” Lynx jerked his hand away from the hilt and stared at it suspiciously. ‘“Oh. I suppose.”
	“I don’t suppose it’s magic or anything?”
	Lynx blinked and stopped short. “What makes you say that?”
	“The pattern on the hilt. It’s reminiscent of a traditional internally-maintained spell circuit, but I’ve never seen one with so few links in the -”
	“Yes, I get it.” Lynx’s stared at the ceiling, eyes crossed. “If you must know, it’s always sharp.”
	“So, no spell of bloodlust? No power to awake the dead?”
	“Just sharp,” Lynx said firmly. “And it doesn’t rust.”
	Starr looked disappointed. “Supernaturally sharp?” she said hopefully. 
	“No. Stop asking questions,” he pushed the sword to the side and out of sight. “And be quiet. I don’t want anyone to hear us.”

(Stuff goes here)

	“This is Esroh,” he patted the mare’s nose fondly, face alight. He looked happier than Starr had yet to see him. Esroh gave a dignified huff, blowing through her nostrils. “You’ll be riding that mare, there.”
	“Horses?” Starr looked at the horse Lynx had indicated. It was large and intimidating and had a distinctly horse-like smell. Starr backed away. “What’s wrong with a carriage?”	
	“What’s wrong with a horse?” Lynx said, exasperated. “Can’t you ride?”
	“No,” Starr said, drawing herself up to her full height. She didn’t like the disbelieving, disparaging way Lynx was looking at her. “I can’t. I don’t know how. It’s not something we’re encouraged to do.” 	
	Lynx ran a hand through his hair, fighting to keep his composure. He blew his bangs out of his face in a horse-like huff. “Well, why ever not?”
	“In case you haven’t noticed, horses are expensive. And I’ve had any reason to leave the school. The farthest we’re allowed to go is down to the village and that’s hardly more than an afternoon’s walk.”
	This only seemed to upset Lynx more. He groaned and began pacing nervously.
	“I don’t see what the big deal is,” she said angrily. “It can’t possibly be that hard. It’s just a horse. And why not just transport there? There are spells you know.”
	Lynx looked up sharply. “You know transport spells?”
	Starr’s stomach sank. “Well, no,” she admitted. “That’s pretty difficult magic. There’s all sorts of calculations and exact measurements involved - you have to know how to describe precisely the objects you’re teleporting and the exact position of the final destination. Some of the Avard Mages tried to get a grid adopted as a method of categorizing locations, but imaginary lines crisscrossing the globe didn’t go over very well with the government at the time. Instead, they started installing bronze plaques --” she trailed off. “You’re not listening to me at all, are you?” she sighed. 
	“No,” Lynx said. He looked unamused. “Can you transport or no?”
	“No,” Starr swallowed. “I doubt anybody at the school can, either. It’s not elemental magic at all. Probably the only mages who can are at the university in Thamalia.”
	Lynx shook his head and started pacing again.
	“What about you?” Starr said, eventually. “You have...elvan magic...and stuff. Couldn’t you teleport?”
	“No,” Lynx said, voice cold. “I can’t. I was never trained to use my powers.”
	“Oh,” said Starr. There seemed little else to say. She lapsed into silence, watching him pace back and forth. Esroh wined and stamped nervously. 
	“Why does it matter?” Starr said.  “We’ll get there eventually.”
	“I’m supposed to be back next week,” Lynx said vaguely. He stroked Esroh’s ears, quieting her. 
	“So? How long does it take to get to Thamalia anyway?” it had never occurred to her to ask. 
	“For me?” said Lynx. “A week. But I ride fast. With you, longer. Two weeks, maybe more.”
	Starr felt faint. Two weeks alone with the elf? She didn’t think she could stand it. She would probably wither and die from excessive exposure to elvan arrogance. She wondered if she could strangle herself with one of the elf’s neckties. 
	Lynx smiled wryly at her expression. “So you see why I want to get back quickly,” he shook his head and sighed. “I guess there’s nothing for it. The sooner we start out, the sooner we’ll arrive in Thamalia. You’re small enough,” he said, glancing her up and down appraisingly. “You can ride with me on the back of Esroh. The other horse will carry the supplies. There’ll be room for your things in that saddlebag, there.”
	Before Starr could protest, Lynx had mounted Esroh and Starr had no choice but to do as she was told. She was dismayed to find her hands shaking as she laced up the leather flaps on the saddlebag. It was just a horse. What was she scared of?
	“Up you go,” Lynx said cheerfully, offering her a hand, but Starr barely heard him. She swallowed, closed her eyes, and placed one unsteady foot in the stirrup, attempting to swing her other leg over top of the horse. 
	As soon as she began to move, she could tell it would end poorly. Her leg caught and she overbalanced, body falling backwards while her fingernails raked at the saddle for a purchase. She resigned herself to falling flat on her back when a hand caught her and pulled her effortlessly up into the saddle, firmly placing her upright. 
	She hazarded a look at her new surroundings, prying one eye open. The ground seemed a sickeningly long way away. She whimpered, dizziness sweeping over her, and clung helplessly to the warm figure in front of her. 
	Lynx stiffened uncomfortably. “You really don’t like horses, do you?” he said, amazed that anyone could be afraid of something as harmless as a horse. Starr tried to push away from him, but the dizziness washed over her again and she found herself clinging tightly to his back. Lynx shifted awkwardly. 
	“All right, I get the picture,” said Lynx irritably. He paused, and his voice softened. “Esroh’s not bad at all, really, once you get to know her. We’ll take it slow - and you can ride on your own when you’re ready.” He sounded almost kind. Starr didn’t say anything. She was too busy trying not to fall off. 
	With austere politeness, Lynx moved her hands so that they rested comfortably at his waist instead of clutching at the fabric of his jerkin. With the reigns of the second horse already secured, he signaled Esroh into movement, falling into the rhythm of her gentle trot. As they picked their way out of the stable, across the ground, and down the long, winding path towards the village below, Starr buried her head against Lynx’s back. They moved quietly away from the school, leaving behind everything and everyone Starr had known for eight years and Starr felt too sick to open her eyes. 

(Chapter 9)

	The sunset came earlier than Lynx had hoped. They had made good time, but still lagged far behind any reasonable progress. Esroh tired quickly with two riders and Lynx had walked besides her far more than he had actually ridden. The D’nani girl had been sullen the entire trip even after her discomfort had died down. She was refusing to talk now out of sheer stubbornness. Lynx didn’t mind; he didn’t have anything to say to her. 
	Lynx dismounted and led both horses off the road, picking carefully through the sparse forrest and up onto a clear rise on the hillside. The ground was still covered in mulch, but it was dry here and there were signs of the ancient campfires of other travelers. As good a place as any to stop. He tethered the horses to a tree and set about unpacking. Esroh waited patiently for him to attend to her, but the other horse puffed its cheeks and shuffled uneasily. He stroked it soothingly. It hadn’t had a name when he bought it and he had seen no reason to give it one. Compared to Esroh, it had shown a distinct lack of personality and was merely along for the ride; a fitting companion for the D’nani girl. 
	In the background came the distinct sound of someone falling off of a horse. 
	Lynx winced and turned around, already knowing what he would see. Starr was sitting on the ground, still partially tangled in Esroh’s saddle, looking exceptionally stunned. 
	“Ow,” she said, almost as an afterthought. She tried to shake her foot loose from the stirrup and failed. She looked at him unhappily. 
	“Allow me,” Lynx sighed and unfastened the rest of Esroh’s tack. The girl slid the rest of the way to the ground, landing with a heavy thud. Lynx wondered mildly if the entire journey would be like this. He was already growing bored. 
	Starr attempted to stand, only to find that her legs were stiff in all the wrong places. She fell back down to the ground. “Ow,” she said, this time with feeling. 
	Lynx sighed again. The entire universe seemed out to get him lately. “Don’t bother trying to stand,” he said. “You’ll be saddlesore for the next few days?”
	“Few days?!” Starr tried to get up again, despite his warning, and fell on her face. 
	“What do you expect, never having ridden before?” Lynx was unsympathetic. The day of slow progress had put him in a bad humor. Starr ignored him viciously and continued trying to stand. Lynx watched her fall a few more times before pity got the better of him. 
	“Here,” he said tiredly, kneeling down next to her. He reached towards her inner thigh, where most of the pain was coming from. 
	Starr slapped him hard across the face. 
	He fell backwards, a hand clutched to his stinging cheek. 
 	“Don’t touch me,” Starr was shaking with anger. “This is all your fault.”
	“Idiot,” Lynx snapped. “I was only trying to heal you.”
	“Liar.”
	Lynx glared at her, stroking a finger down his tender face. The red handprint disappeared and the stinging stopped. 
	Starr stared at him. “You are a healer,” she said dumbly.
	“What did you expect?” said Lynx sardonically. He was not happy. “It comes with being an elf. Now, if you don’t take care of it, the sores will only get worse. ”
	Starr examined him cautiously. She was a mess of conflicting emotions, battling between her loathing of him and her sheer dislike of pain. He wondered if she would refuse, just to spite him. It was a near thing.  	In the end, her discomfort won out. 
	“All right,” she said, eventually. “Can you heal me?” She shifted painfully and gave him a look that was almost pleading. 
	Lynx nodded and placed one hand on her thigh with exaggerated care. He did not want to get slapped again. Even if he could get rid of the sting, something of the embarrassment still remained. 
	“It will itch,” he warned her. “Try not to move.”
	Starr nodded and Lynx gently brushed his fingers over her leg, slowing his breathing and concentrating on the heat of her skin against his fingers. Carefully, he poured his attention into her, into the skin and muscle and tendons that comprised her body. She burned with life and activity; tiny twinges in the muscle, the invisible movement of a body already trying to repair itself. The raw skin blazed against his magic and he quieted it, smoothing out the sores and growing the skin back in healthy layers. Her leg muscles were woefully underdeveloped. A few more days of riding and she’d start to build much needed mass. For now, there wasn’t much he could do but relieve the soreness. 
	“You’re gripping the horse with your thighs,” he frowned. “Try to relax some, and rise with the horse. You’ll find it less bumpy.” He took his hand away. 
	Experimentally, Starr closed her legs. “It’s...better,” she sounded surprised. “The pain’s gone.”
	“But if you don’t learn to ride, it won’t matter. You’ll be sore again tomorrow and the day after, even if I keep healing you. I could always tie you to the back of the saddle,” Lynx looked hopeful. “That should help with the soreness. ”
	“Don’t even think of it,” Starr said irritably and stretched, arms above her head. “I’ll learn how to ride.”
	“Good. We’ll try you out on your own horse after we get to more level ground.” Lynx stood up, returning his attention to the horses. Esroh still needed to be unbridled and brushed and she was not happy at being made to wait this long. At least horses didn’t slap you when you tried to help them. He set about brushing down Esroh, concentrating on each repetitive stroke, relaxingly slowly into the routine.
	He became aware of Starr standing expectantly behind him.
	Lynx paused mid-brush and turned around. 
	“Was there something you wanted?” he asked. 
	“Should I...be doing something?” Starr asked awkwardly, shifting her weight from foot to foot.
	“Perhaps you could help make camp,” Lynx suggested, unamused. “It would make the entire process go faster. You...do know how to camp, right?” 
	The girl just shook her head, staring morosely at the ground. Lynx ran a hand through his hair. It was becoming increasingly clear to him that he might not have thought this journey all the way through. 
	“Find some firewood?” he said, eventually. “Even a city girl like you should be able do that. We’ll need kindling and wood for burning.” 
	The girl smiled at him somewhat sarcastically and stumbled off into the woods. At the very least she knew a cue to leave when he gave her one. Lynx shook his head. He missed his sister terribly. Seeing the D’nani girl -- finding his sister’s exact double had reopened the gaping hole where Elania should have been. That she only looked like Elania was rubbing the hole raw. Their personalities were nothing alike. He had expected - something - when he finally found one of the girls. Not a replacement for Elania of course, but something special, something to differentiate them from the rest of the plebeians that overran the world. 
	The reality had let him down.

	This was not at all what Starr had expected. 
	She blundered noisily through the forrest, tripping over rocks and sticks hidden by the fallen leaves. She wasn’t sure what she had expected, the entire journey having been sprung upon her out of nowhere, but it certainly hadn’t involved stumbling around a forest in the middle of nowhere looking for firewood. A carriage would have been nice and an inn to stay the night instead of this camping business and the stink of horses. 
	A fallen branch caught her eye and she scooped it out of the mulch, shaking it free of spiders and dead leaves. She stood and promptly hit her head on a tree. She swore venomously at the tree, at life, at stuck-up elves, but the forest swallowed her curses into the twilight. It was becoming too dark to see. 
	She was alone, she realized. The forest stretched on, quiet and empty, surrounding her with impending darkness. She had left her friends, left her teachers and supporters, at the whim of some elf with outrageous claims and an even more outrageous vendetta. In the span of a few days, she had placed her life in the hands of another - a person who barely acknowledged she existed. There was nothing around for miles, no other souls, no potential friends; she was on her own.
	Starr sat down heavily on a log and picked distractedly at the decaying bark. She had hated the school, with its confining, oppressive walls, but the lack of direction scared her even more. She harbored no romantic illusions about life in Thamalia; Lynx would probably abandon her as soon as she served whatever purpose he had in mind. Would the D’nani take her then? What had happened to them, eight years ago, to cause her enrollment in a human school? What had happened to her? Her hands reached up to her ears, caressing the ridges that now ran along the edge. The feeling was completely alien and her hands were shaking as she quietly folded them in her lap.
	She stumbled back to the campsite in the dark and dumped a bundle of sticks at Lynx’s feet. He glanced down at the pile and frowned. 
	“You’ll have to separate out the kindling to start a fire,” he said pointedly. 
	Starr glared at him and the dry branches burst into flame. Lynx yelped, leaping backwards,the horses rearing and stamping in alarm. The fire fizzled and died as suddenly as it had come, leaving the ground only slightly scorched. Lynx swallowed. 
	“Fair enough,” he admitted. He calmed the horses and politely gathered up the wood, rearranging it in a stone circle on the hilltop and packing dry leaves around the base. “Light it again and I’ll make dinner.”
	Starr did as she was told, plopping down on a rock and ignoring Lynx fiercely. While he retrieved a pot and supplies for soup, Starr attempted to brush the dirt and debris from her dress. A stray spider landed on her skirt and she flicked it away.
	“Why aren’t we staying in an inn?” she asked savagely. “Why set up a camp in the middle of nowhere?”
	Lynx looked up from the soup. “Do you see an inn around here?” he motioned at the dark, empty woods. “We won’t be near a town for another two days or so.”
	“No inns?” Starr stared at him.
	“No inns,” Lynx frowned. “The population density in the east isn’t high enough to support road-side inns. There will be more places to stay after we get out of Shicero.”
	“You’re the king,” Starr said. “Build some here.”
	Lynx opened his mouth to reply, but laughed instead, in short, high gulps. “It’s never that easy,” he said, swallowing his laughter at Starr’s glare. “I can’t just give someone money to go build an inn. All government spending has to be passed through Parliament. If I propose giving money to Shicero to stimulate growth, then the Duc of Kolouric and Lammark will want a cut as well. Then the western Ducdoms will probably claim I’m playing favorites and the east will claim that Thamalia gets everything anyway because it houses the capital. And I’ll be caught in the middle of it all, trying to negotiate between ducs all while convincing the rest of the noble lords that this benefits them all in some way or another. And all because I wanted a more convenient place to stay.” He looked vaguely apologetic. 
	“It’s not like that,” Starr protested. “Not really.”
	“Oh, I assure you, it is,” Lynx gave the soup a few quick stirs. “Politics is everything. I’m really quite powerless. Most of what I can do comes down to displays of power and preying on public opinion. Not very many people will rally behind the elves these days.” 
	“You say that like it’s a bad thing.”
	Lynx gave her a hard look. “For me, it is. It’s my livelihood. My purpose. The moment the enough of the populous get it into their heads that Lyradis no longer needs a monarchy, I lose my life.”
	“But that’s not likely to happen,” Starr said, appalled at the thought of Lyradis without a Queen or King. She expected Lynx to smile and reassure her. Instead he avoided her gaze. “Is it?”
	“I don’t know,” Lynx took a spoonful of soup and blew on it. “The elves have divine right to rule - we won it in the Holy Wars at the bequest of Eltanin. After the goddesses were sealed, Eltanin’s power was passed down the royal line, ensuring whomever held it had a claim to the throne. My mother and my sister were both Eltanin’s vessels. But with them gone, determining royal primogeniture is uncertain. The throne came to me - the last member of the immediate royal family, even though I’m not female.”
	“But where did Eltanin’s power go? It can’t have just vanished.”
	“No, of course not.” Lynx looked surprised. “It went into me.”
	A silence descended. Lynx stirred the soup and Starr sat on her rock, feeling confused.
	“I didn’t know that was possible,” Starr said eventually, breaking the silence. 
	“Neither did I,” admitted Lynx. “But apparently it did. My proximity and parentage probably made me the most convenient choice. ”
	“Are you you one of the vessels as well?” The thought made Starr innately uncomfortable. 
	“No-o,” Lynx said slowly. “Not quite. I’m not a vessel. You are the embodiment of Reesimah on this plane. I just have Eltanin’s power.”
	“There a difference?”
	“A rather important one, I should think. I cannot communicate with, manipulate, nor become Eltanin in any form. Her consciousness is completely separate from me. If she is ever restored to her divinity, she’ll probably come calling and take whatever’s hers back. I have no true connection to her at all. As far as she’s concerned, I’m just a petty a thief.” 
	“But you still have her power. Why don’t you just fix everything with a wave of your hand? Become a god yourself?”
	“Can you do that? Can you scorch the earth with a thought like Reesimah did to the Kolouric peninsula? For one reason or another, it doesn’t work like that. I have Eltanin’s power, but I can’t access any of it. I can just...feel it. Sitting there -- lurking in the back of my mind,” he shivered. “Mind magic is unpleasant in large quantities.” 
	Starr struggled to make sense of what Lynx was telling her. “But why? Why did you get Eltanin’s power when your sister died? Why wasn’t another vessel born instead? It doesn’t make any sense.”
	“I thought that was obvious,” said Lynx, surprised. “I inherited Etanin’s power when I killed my sister.” 

(Chapter 10)

	“I’m sorry,” Starr said. “I thought you just said you killed your sister.”
	Lynx frowned. “Didn’t Ephiles tell you? I told you to ask her.”
	“She said Elania il Edanna was killed,” Starr said slowly. “She neglected to mention who was suspected for her murder.” 
	“Oh. Oh dear,” Lynx looked genuinely concerned.
	“You’re collecting vessels,” Starr fought to keep control, but her voice was steadily rising in pitch. “You already have the power of one goddess. Is that what you’re doing? Is that your plan? You’re collecting vessels so you can cannibalize our magic?” 
	“No! That’s -”
	“You’re going to kill me too,” Starr began to panic. She scrambled off the rock, away from Lynx, deaf to all of his attempts to calm her down.  “We’re out in the middle of nowhere. All alone. No village for another two days’ ride.” Starr began to back towards the woods when Lynx stood, reaching out for her. “No!” she screamed, twisting away. “Don’t touch me! You killed your sister!”
	“Shut up and listen, will you!” Lynx snapped. Starr froze, eyes huge in the firelight, ready to bolt. Lynx was absolutely furious, teeth bared, hands in fists at his sides. Starr was terrified. His entire frame was tensed, ready to attack at the slightest provocation. 
	Instead, he sat back down and put his head in his hands. 
	“You think I want this power?” he asked. “It’s useless - all it does is make me sick! I loved my sister. Instead, all I have a mess of magic I can’t use, a throne I don’t want, and the hatred of everyone whose lives my sister ever touched. I’m miserable. I don’t want my magic and I certainly don’t want your magic; all I want is my sister back. I would do anything, anything, to have her back. Do you understand?”
	“You didn’t mean to kill her?” Starr’s voice was a whisper.
	Lynx laughed bitterly. “I don’t know,” he said miserably. “I drove a sword through her chest and watched her die with her blood on my hands. And I have to live with that every day. I never wanted any of this. I was supposed to be Prince Consort, not King; I was trained in military theory, not diplomacy and politics. It was Elania’s forte. It was what she was good at. Elania should be Queen, not me. She should be here, talking to you instead of me.” He looked away. “I’ve maid a mess of everything I ever touched.”
	In that moment of misery, half illuminated by the yellow campfire, Starr recognized him. Despite all of his haughtiness, despite his condescending manner and assuredness, he was the same as her. He wasn’t more than two, maybe three years older than her; he had the same fears, the same need for happiness and acceptance. The uncertainty that plagued her was reflected in his own features, warped by a mask of responsibility and privilege. Something inside her swelled and filled her chest - a desire to protect. To comfort. 
	Starr sat down next to him quietly. 
	“What happened?” she asked. “Why did you kill her?”
	“You don’t care.”
	“I do,” said Starr. “Or, I’m curious, at least.”
	“Even if you did, it’s none of your business,” Lynx retorted. “Just know that I’m no threat to you. I’m not your enemy unless you make me.”
	“That’s not what I meant,” Starr flushed. It was difficult to be kind when someone obviously did not want kindness. Her sympathy began to evaporate. “I just thought you might like to talk about it.”
	“She died two years ago,” Lynx said, looking haggard. “Do you think I haven’t had the chance?” He shook his head, all traces of vulnerability vanishing from his face. “The nobles tried to put me on the throne as a puppet, thinking I would be indebted to them for my power. They were wrong. The only debt I carry is a debt to my sister,” he said darkly. “No matter the circumstances, I gained the throne and I intend to keep it. That’s where you come in.”
	“Me?” Starr looked at him blankly. “If you don’t want my magic, why do you need me at all? Why couldn’t have you just left me alone back at the school?”
	“Politics,” Lynx said flatly. “You look like my sister; never underestimate that power of appearances. My throne is precarious.” The corner of his mouth lifted, smiling at some inner joke. “When the nobles found out that they couldn’t control me, they started to look for ways to get rid of me. The human contingency in Parliament has been restless for years. While the queens of Lyradis were stripped of much of their power after the first Kan Makael disposed his sister, they still retain the backing of the elves and the favor of the Creed. Parliament cannot openly cross the Creed without risking another religious war. The more the gods appear to be behind me, the more solid my claim becomes.”
	“You want the support of the D’nani goddess,” Starr’s heart sunk. 
	“Yes,” Lynx said, nodding. His condescension had reemerged and he spoke with practiced superiority. It made Starr angry. For an instant, she had though he was a real person. “The Nog’Rog D’nani refuse to support the elvan government and have for the past ten years. Luckily for me, the D’nani are no friends to the human nobles; too many D’nani businesses have been destroyed by human merchants. However, if the D’nani vessel is seen backing the throne...it strengthens my claim and may possibly weaken the D’nani separatists resolve.” He grinned. “It’s win-win for me.”
	“But that’s not fair to the D’nani!” Starr said furiously.
	“Why do you care?” Lynx raised one eyebrow. “I thought you weren’t D’nani.”
	“That’s not the point,” she snapped. “You’re using me to back an ideal I don’t approve of!”
	Lynx shrugged. “Unfortunately you have no choice.” 
	“I should have a choice! You can’t just control people like this.”
	“Did you miss the part where I’m the king?” he frowned. “I can do whatever I want.” 
	“How exactly has that worked out for you?” Starr crossed her arms. 
	“Just fine so far,” Lynx stared at her with narrowed eyes. Even in the encroaching gloom, they were too-blue, reflecting the light of the fire like polished marbles. 
	“I hate you,” Starr declared.
	Lynx snorted, closing his eyes. “Oh, believe me, I know. It’s been leaking out of you since this morning.”
	“What does that mean?”
	“It means,” Lynx said mildly, “that you really need to learn to control your emotions. Even without my magic, I can read you like a book.”
	“Magic...?”
	“The elvan element is mind,” Lynx said eyes glinting in the firelight. He grinned wolfishly. “Or was that another thing you didn’t know?”
	“You’re psychic,” Starr said eventually, realization catching up to her on a very slow horse.
	 “You really didn’t know,” he said, biting back laughter. “I thought it was rather obvious. How else did I know you were D’nani?”
	“I am not D’nani,” she said through gritted teeth.
	He paused in his laughter, expression turning serious. “Of course not,” he said politely, “I must have made a mistake. The red hair, the fire magic, the ridges on your ears - they’re all just coincidence.”
	“You - you put them there!” Starr accused. “You manipulated me and changed my memories!”
	“No, I didn’t,” Lynx said. “I couldn’t even if I wanted to. I’m a reader. If I concentrate, I can see conscious thought and irregularities, but not much else. Most of what I pick up on is what other people think of me.”
	“I bet that’s a load of laughs,” Starr snapped. “So how many friends do you have? Or are they all too busy thinking about how much they dislike you?”
	Lynx laughed in a short gulp before shutting his mouth firmly and pursing his lips. He looked thoughtful.
	“Soup’s done,” he said politely. “Would you like to eat?”
	
(Chapter 11)

	“Starr? Starr?! Aww, bloody hells, Starr! Wait up or my da’s gonna kill me.”
	Starr slid to a stop in the dust, trying to look like she had intended to wait all along. 
	“It’s not my fault you’re so slow,” she stuck out her tongue. 
	The orange haired boy came to a panting halt, hands on his knees. “I’m not slow,” he said with a scowl. “You little buggers are fast. You’re gonna have to help me out here, Starr. My da will kill me if I don’t look after you. ‘Be nice to your cousin,” he says. As if I want to spend my day running after little girls.” He shot her a meaningful look.
	“You don’t have to, Alnerki,” Starr said eagerly. If she got rid of him, she could go up the mountain by herself. “Why don’t you go do something else? I won’t tell.”
	“Don’t dare,” Alnerki shook his head sadly. “I’m scared of your ma.”
	Starr scowled. “Mom’s not scary,” she said. 
	“Don’t you know?” Alnerki said, scratching at his nose. “Your ma’s cursed.”
	“That’s not true!” Starr said. 
	“It is,” Alnerki said, comfortably. “Nobody but the Theran would take her. There were tons of arguments when Da decided to let her back into the tribe. You’re probably too young to remember.”
	“You’re a liar!” Starr yelled, fists at her side. “Take it back!”
	“It’s true,” Alnerki insisted. “They’ll probably just waiting till you’re older to tell you. Why else do you think your da died?”	
	Starr launched herself at him with a yell, swinging her fists wildly. Surprised, Alnerki fell backwards, but Starr managed to latch onto his back and pulled at his hair. 
	“Stop it you two!”
	Starr ignored the command. She continued to yank at her older cousin’s head until a pair of arms wrapped around her and she was lifted away from the fight. She struggled in midair. 
	“Now, stop that, Starr! I’m very ashamed of you.” 
	Alnerki pushed himself off the ground and grinned sheepishly at the newcomer. “Hiya, Jyn. You here to nurse me back to health?”
	Jynaia scoffed and set Starr down on the ground. She dusted Starr off while Starr only scowled and kicked at the angrily at the ground. “Don’t be silly, Alnerki,” Jynaia said, rubbing at the dirt on Starr’s cheek. “I’m only here because I know you can’t do anything by yourself. You’re hopeless.”
	Alnerki smiled and brushed himself off. “As long as I get to see your smiling face, I don’t care how many times I get beaten up.”
	Starr rolled her eyes and made a gagging motion. 
	“Is that why you were beaten up by a nine year old girl?” Jynaia said mildly. She stood, hands on her hips and regarded Alnerki with amusement. “Were you trying to impress me?”
	“Anything for you, Jyn.” Alnerki grinned rakishly. Jynaia’s mouth quirked into a smile and she gave him a quick kiss on the cheek. He laughed and returned the kiss, full on the lips. 
	“AHEM,” Starr stamped her feet. “Can I go now? I don’t want to be here with you two kissing.”
	“Where were you two doing?” Jynaia asked, as Alnerki put his arm around her. “I went looking for you, but Chief Kissender said you’d left the village.” 
	“I want to go to the top of the mountains,” Starr said excitedly. “Endliya said you can see the ocean from there!”
	“I don’t know about that,” said Jynaia. “Endliya is a huge liar. He likes to pick on little kids.”
	“See!” Alnerki said. “That’s what I told her. She said she didn’t believe me and took off.”
	“Starr, you know better than to leave Alnerki behind,” Jynaia scolded. “He’s useless without someone to look after him. He could have fallen off a cliff.”
	“Wha-? Hey!” 
	Starr giggled in spite of herself. She liked Jynaia, although she was always shy around the older girl. 	
	“Well?” Jynaia asked, after Alnerki had finished feigning hurt. “Are we going up the mountain or not?”
	“Really?” Starr asked. “You’ll come?”
	“I’ve never been to the top,” Jynaia admitted. “I don’t know about being able to see the ocean, but the Therans used the mountains as a stronghold in the Holy Wars. There should be something interesting up there at least.” She smiled and started off down the path.
	“The Holy Wars?” Alnerki scratched his nose, following close behind. “I didn’t know you were interested in that stuff, Jyn.”
	She shrugged and climbed around a large slab of granite that had fallen on the path. “After I found out your family’s descended from Kavendar, I started to look a little bit more into the roll of the Theran in the Holy Wars. The Theran tribe used to be huge, Alnerki! We held most of the northern outposts against the elves on our own.”
	“Too bad they were decimated after the war,” Alnerki said cheerfully. “That’s what happens when you stand against elves.” 
	Jynaia paused on the road. “I don’t think that’s entirely fair,” she said. “The elves have everything. The chief even supported the Nog’Rog when they withdrew from parliament.”
	Alnerki just shrugged.  “All this fighting’s bad for business,” he said. “I just want to get my apprenticeship done and make things for the Theran. No sense following my da into polticis. Look how miserable it’s made him.”
	“You’d be a great leader, Alnerki,” Jynaia said disapprovingly. “All it would take is a little motivation.” 
	“Luckily I’ve got none,” Alnerki grinned. 
	(this chapter is unfinished)

(Chapter 12) 

	Starr screamed in the middle of the night. The camp fire flared and sputtered, then went out.
	She sat up straight, gasping. Lynx was already awake, sword in hand, clad only in a simple shirt and breeches. He glanced down at her. 
	“Nightmare?”
	“I - I -” Starr gulped and clutched her head, squeezing tears out of her eyes. “I was D’nani and I -.” Her eyes widened, nostrils flaring as she remembered the smell of smoke and the inability to breathe. “The - the elves...burned my village,” she whispered. “All of it, gone.”
	Above her in the dark, Lynx frowned. 
	“Why would you do that?” Starr’s eyes were full of tears and not from the distant memories of smoke. “Why would you kill my entire family?”
	“I didn’t,” Lynx sighed and sat down next to her, laying his sword across his lap. “My mother did.”
	Starr struggled to focus on Lynx. The images were all too vidid in her memory. “Your mother killed my family?”
	“Queen Adhara il Elricia ordered the attacks on the D’nani nation, yes.”
	“Why would she kill all those people? What did the D’nani do to deserve that?”
	“They didn’t deserve it, Starr. Not like that,” his voice was calm, delicate.  
	Starr searched his face, confused. “What happened, Lynx? Why did the D’nani break off ties with Lyradis?”
	Lynx paused before answering, illuminated only by the light of the stars. “The D’nani were being exploited,” Lynx said eventually. “Most of the manufacturing and raw materials in Lyradis originated as exports of D’nani tribes. They would sell to human or Azore merchants, who would port goods all over Lyradis at a huge markup, with the D’nani unable to represent themselves in pre-established trade routes. Kolouric was being keep deliberately poor to fatten the purses of investors in Thamalia. The Nog’Rog D’nani petitioned Parliament for protection, but the humans wouldn’t have it. So the D’nani packed up and left. They withdrew their Racial Consul from parliament and declared themselves a separate nation, proclaiming that we had to treat with them as such.” 
	“And so you murdered them?!”
	“Not me, my mother,” Lynx said irritably. The response was automatic. “The D’nani wouldn’t listen. Not only did they resort to drastic measures when there was still other avenues available, but they embarked on a campaign to do as much damage to merchant holdings as was physically possible. The D’nani burned ports, Starr. They sabotaged vessels and attacked human and elvan businesses. Lyradis couldn’t just let that stand.” He shook his head. “Not to mention that the entire economy relied heavily on D’nani production. Their abandonment practically bankrupted the country. Most manufacturing was exported to Artensia.” 	“But the D’nani were in the right if they were being exploited,” Starr insisted.  	“Were they really?” Lynx chewed his lip. “I don’t know. The D’nani were being treated unfairly, yes, but they shouldn’t have resorted to violence to make their point. I don’t know who was in the right. I do know that my mother lost her temper. She declared Kolouric to be under martial law and sent in troops to make examples of some of the northern most settlements,” he looked at her with something akin to pity. “Your village must have been one of them.”
	Starr stared at the ground. “I don’t have anything,” she said. “I thought - I thought maybe I could go back to the D’nani. I could go find my family. But they’re gone.”
	“Oh, so you’re D’nani now?” said Lynx sarcastically. “I thought you were still insisting I tricked you.”
	“Don’t be unkind,” Starr snapped. “I’m rediscovering my identity.”
	Lynx said nothing. He traced circles in the dirt and stared at her, waiting.
	“What...are you going to do with me?” Starr asked eventually, when Lynx gave no sign of speaking. 
	“I told you, I want your support. I want you to stand with my political allies. Make it known that not all D’nani oppose the government.” 
	“How, Lynx? How can I do that? I’m one girl without a tribe.”
	“I could appoint you a Racial Consul,” Lynx said thoughtfully, “It would give you political sway. You’d have the resources to go find your family.”
	“My family’s dead,” Starr said flatly. 
	“Wonderful. Something we have in common.”
	“I can’t support you,” Starr said, the finality of it settling on her like a layer of dust. She felt very heavy. “You murdered my family.”
	“Not me - my mother.”
	“It’s the same thing!” Starr’s eyes flashed. “The elves practically enslaved the D’nani for centuries, and you think that I could ever side with an elvan king?”
	Lynx looked disappointed. “You’ll have to try. It’s in your best interest.”
	“No,” Starr said. “Tie me up, throw me in prison. I don’t care. You murdered my family. I can’t help you.” 
	“My cousins died in a D’nani attack,” Lynx said flatly. “And my sister met her end fleeing from a raid. You think I have no personal stake?”
	“It’s not the same.”
	“How so?” Lynx’s voice had turned cold. “Your people killed my relatives. My mother ordered the strike against your village.”
	“So now you hate the D’nani?”
	“No!” Lynx roared. “Don’t you see? I’m trying to make amends. There could be peace - balance, even.”
	“You don’t care about the D’nani. You said you wanted my support to secure your throne. You’re just in this for yourself.”
	“Of course I have personal reasons,” Lynx sat back contemptuously. “But that doesn’t mean it’s not the right thing to do.” 
	Starr stared at him disbelievingly. 
	“Lyradis is my country,”  Lynx said. There was steel in his voice. “That means that all the people in it - D’nani and elves, duc and fishmongers - are my responsibility. Every day I’m faced with the wants and needs of hundreds of thousands of people. The humans want more representation, but at the cost of the D’nani’s autonomy. The Azore slowly amass control of elvan fortunes while the elves pretend the country isn’t broke. We are four people and we are separate.
	“Support me,” Lynx pleaded. “I am the voice of all those people, whether they realize it or not. The throne stands for this balance. We won the right to our own lives in the Holy Wars, free of divine meddling, but it is my job to make sure we don’t tear ourselves apart.”
	“You don’t speak for the D’nani,” Starr said stubbornly. “Either you win their support without me or I can’t help.” 
	Agitated, Lynx ran his hands through his hair, pulling his bangs away from his face. He seemed to be mulling things over.
	“Even if you won’t be a representative of the D’nani,” he said eventually, “you’re still a vessel of a goddess.” 
	“It doesn’t matter,” Starr said. “I won’t help you.”
	“I don’t think you understand,” Lynx frowned. “I can do just fine with you as a prisoner. All I need is the D’nani goddess under my control and I’ve already one-upped Okirun.” 
	“A prisoner? But you need my help!”
	“It doesn’t matter. You can be made useful, willing or no,” his face was carefully blank, a carved mask in the low light. 
	“No. Not at all. I’m leaving this instant,” Starr kicked away the blankets that wrapped around her legs. Lynx watched her dispassionately. 
	“Where are you going to go? The D’nani are gone and the humans can’t hide you. You can’t even ride. As far as you get on foot, I can always catch up to you on horseback.”
	“You’re kidnapping me!” Starr was outraged. 
	Lynx gave that same dispassionate shrug. “Look,” he said, “I don’t really care. I don’t care that you’ve suddenly developed a racial conscience, I don’t care that your family is dead, and I certainly don’t care what you feel about it; all I care is that you,” he poked her in the collar bone, “come to Thamalia and stay there. This is something I am going to make happen even if I have to tie you up and drag you there on the back of Esroh.”
	Starr opened her mouth to speak but Lynx held up a hand.
	“And when we get to Thamalia,” he said dangerously, “what happens there is completely up to you. I’m perfectly willing to treat you as what you currently are; a guest of the royal family, complete with all the luxuries and freedoms that entails. But if for some reason you happen to see yourself differently, as, oh, say, a D’nani prisoner of an Elvan repressive regime, I’m more than prepared to adapt to meet your expectations. And believe me,” he said darkly, “I’m good at meeting expectations. Now go back to sleep.”

(Chapter 13)

	They made it to an inn just before nightfall on the fourth day, the trees stretching their last shadows across the golden landscape. Starr was thoroughly grumpy by then, snapping at Lynx whenever he spoke. She missed her dormitory, she missed the reassuring regularity of classes, and she missed the company of her friends. Although simple instruction and lots of practice had improved her riding technique, she wanted nothing more than a bath and a place to sleep indoors. Lynx was starting to look haggard as well, his long hair hanging across his eyes in greasy strands. His face lit up when they saw lanterns twinkling in the distance. 
	“Finally,” he said smiling, forgetting for the moment their mutual animosity. “We’ll need to rest up before we cross the mountains. We’ll be out of Shicero once we’re on the other side.”
	“And how long until we reach Thamalia?” Starr shivered in the night air. It was cooler, this close to the mountains. 
	“Five, six days,” Lynx said absently. “But there are towns and markets along the road. We’ve made better time.”
	The inn was on the very edge of a small farming village, already cast in shadow by the setting sun. Lynx dismounted outside of the building’s stable, leaving Starr still struggling to get down off of her horse. She snatched her saddlebag off of the horse before turning the reigns over to the stablehand, self-consciously patting her hair over her ears before hurrying after Lynx. 
	The inside of the inn was large and comfortable, divided into secluded dining area and a wood paneled common room, both occupied with chatting travelers. Distracted by the new surroundings, Starr neglected to watch where she was going and ran straight into Lynx’s back. She blushed furiously, frantically patting down her hair, but Lynx motioned for her to be quiet. 
	He was scanning the room. 
	“We have to leave,” he said quietly. “Get the horses and meet me outside.”
	“What? But we just got here!”
	“No arguing. Leave. Now.”
	Grumbling, Starr exited hurriedly, collecting Esroh and her nameless mare from a confused stablehand. Lynx met her, swinging himself up on his horse and indicating for her to do the same. A few awkward attempts later and they were riding out of the village and into the woods beyond, horses picking their way carefully along the dark path. 
	“We’re riding at night?!” Starr squeaked nervously as the village lanterns receded into the darkness behind them. 
	“Quiet,” Lynx hissed. “There are people looking for us. We need to get out of sight - and quickly.”
	“But -”
	“I said quiet!” 
	Starr shut her mouth and followed behind him as best she could. Her horse seemed far more competent at navigating in the dark, so she resigned herself to sitting back in the saddle and hoped it knew where it was going. 
	The path had been steadily increasing in incline when Lynx stopped and began to walk Esroh off the path. Blearily, Starr dismounted and followed, tripping over the rocks and gravel hidden on the road. 
	“We camp here,” Lynx nodded towards the forrest. “Out of sight. It’s too dangerous to climb the mountain at night.”
	“Oh, and riding through a forest at night is safe?” Starr was exhausted and angry. She had been looking forward to a night in a real bed and now they were camping again, no inns in sight until they crossed the mountains. “Can we at least have a fire?”
	“Whoever it is shouldn’t catch up with us until the morning,” Lynx considered. “It’s safe for now at least.” He lead them to a knoll in the tall trees, the forest floor slanted with the rise of the mountains. Starr plopped down and curled up in a little ball in the leaves. 
	“Who are we running from anyway?” she asked sleepily. 
	“I don’t know,” Lynx was seeing to the horses. “It might be the Artensians come after you. Or it might be my retinue come after me.” 
	“What?” Starr sat up, incredulous. “We’re running away from your retinue?”
	“They’re not necessarily -” 
	“Why would you run away from your own retinue?” Starr was furious. “Aren’t they supposed to take care of you? They would have tents and bathes and warm food!” 
	“Yes, but they would also slow us down,” Lynx paled. “And they’re probably not the happiest with me right now. I sort of ditched them in northern Shicero.”
	“So you’re avoiding them?! What’s wrong with you?! We’re sleeping in the dark, outdoors, and in damp leaves! I could have been sleeping in an inn!”
	“It’s not that simple -”
	“It’s never that simple!” Starr snapped. “But all I see is a selfish little boy running away from his responsibility. Just because you don’t like your entourage doesn’t mean I should have to suffer.” 
	“Please,” Lynx said, pleading. “We can discuss this in the morning. I’m in no mood to argue.” 
	Starr snorted, disgusted, and rolled back into the leaves. She seethed quietly to herself, contemplating running away in the middle of the night, but was asleep before Lynx even had a chance to light a fire. 

	Starr woke the next morning to the sound of horses. 
	She sat up, blanket spilling off of her. The mountain was gold in the sunlight, autumn leaves littering the ground. Their camp was quiet - Lynx was still an unmoving lump in his bedroll - but hoofbeats echoed across the mountainside. In the dark, they hadn’t come nearly as far off the path as she had thought. 
	Starr scrambled to her feet. The thin trunks of the aspen shielded the camp from view; they would be safe as long as she stayed quiet. 
	The horses were closer now, and Starr could hear the riders’ voices. Curiosity got the better of her and she crept towards the road, crawling on her stomach through the fallen leaves. The riders were almost in view of the camp; she could see two men on horseback flickering in and out of view between the tree trunks.
	“I still don’t see how we could have missed them,” a young man was complaining. 
	“That’s why Halfax and the rookie stayed behind at the inn. It’s the most direct route back to Thamalia, and unless they pass around the mountains to the north, they’ll come through here. Trust me, I know Shicero.” 
	“So we have to ride to Thamalia to report to his grace’s pain-in-the-ass?” the rider sighed. “I should have stayed with Halfax. We could have just left a message with Malthinae, you know. He is duc of Shicero.”
	“Do you even know the meaning of the word ‘discreet’?” the second rider snapped. He was an older man with a close cropped goatee. “Malthinae wont want to be seen being talking to representatives of Artensia, not until his grace gives the okay. No, we bring this to Zaza first.”
	“But Zaza gives me the willies,” the younger man whined, shivering in his saddle. “All Azore do. And she’s probably giving his grace more for her employment than just spies, if you know what I mean.”
	“You keep talking about his grace like that and he will have your head. Zaza will already be unhappy with us if we can’t find the girl. All we have is the rookie’s word. We don’t even know why she’s important.” 
	“Its still a waste of our time.” 
	“If His Majesty is interested in some girl from middle-of-nowhere Shicero, then his grace is interested in some girl from middle-of-nowhere Shicero. Now shut up and ride. The next time you complain, Zaza will give you more than willies.” 
	The younger rider shut his mouth, humming tunelessly to himself instead. He seemed unable to keep quiet. By the time they had passed out of Starr’s view, he had broken into full song, snippets of his bawdy lyrics floating down the road behind them.
	“Red and white are Artensia’s colors,” Lynx said mildly, somewhere behind her left shoulder. 
	Starr jumped. “Gods,” she said. “I thought you were asleep.” 
	“I was,” Lynx looked thoughtfully after the riders. “Okirun is looking for you. He may not know that it’s you he’s looking for, but he definitely has an eye out. Come on, let’s go back to camp. I want breakfast.” 
	 “Who’s Okirun?” Starr asked, trundling after Lynx. 
	“The Artensian Regent,” Lynx replied. He knelt on the ground, scraping dry leaves in a pile for a fire. 
	“Is he new?” Starr asked timidly. Her history classes hadn’t covered anything more recent than the reign of the first Kan Makael. Not that she had been paying attention. 
	Lynx frowned. He seemed distracted. “He’s had claim to the title for three years now. In fact, he was almost king. You’re kind of off in your own little world, out here in Shicero,” Lynx added reproachfully at Starr’s blank stare. “There are other things happening in Lyradis, you know.” 
	“Yes, but they’re all so far away,” Starr said desperately. “And none of it used to involve me.” 
	Lynx sighed. “All right. As a territory of Lyradis, Artensia is under direct control of the royal family. Traditionally, a regent is appointed to represent the interests of the monarchy on the other continent. The regent during my mother’s reign was distant cousin of our family - Maeron al Emil. Against my mother’s wishes, he married a human woman. My mother was furious at him for diluting the blood - I think she called it a ‘human abomination in a pureblood rule’. They mainland elves forced him and his human wife into exile, and gave his brother his title. That was about twenty-five years ago.”
	“And Okirun is Laeron’s brother?”
	“Maeron and no.” Lynx shook his head. “Okirun is Maeron’s son, His wife gave birth in exile. Maeron’s banishment didn’t sit well with the human Lords in parliament so they managed to smuggle the family back into Lyradis. Okirun was sent to the best schools and academies, all the while disguising his heritage from my mother. Eventually his father’s presence was discovered and his family destroyed. Okirun disappeared - and was presumed dead - until he showed up the next year leading a human revolt in Artensia. He took over the title of regent.” 
	“He became regent? Just like that?” 
	Lynx nodded. “My sister had just come to power and her strength as a ruler was untested. Okirun was poised to launch a civil war, or to declare Artensia independent from Lyradis. The elves wanted him destroyed and the humans wanted to give him metals. He offered my sister an easy way out - a political marriage. There would be no war, Artensia would still be tied to Lyradis, and Okirun’s position as regent secured through the royal line. My sister accepted.” 
	“She agreed to marry him? Did she love him?”
	Lynx looked at her strangely. “It was a political marriage.”
	Starr didn’t see why the two were mutually exclusive. She bit her lip. “So what happened next?”
	“My sister died before they were married,” Lynx said flatly. “Okirun had no claim to his fiance’s throne. I became king. Needless to say, he wasn’t very happy with me.” 
	“But you let him stay regent?”
	“He has the support of most of the noble lords,” Lynx said slowly, “even if they pretend otherwise. His mixed heritage makes his position shaky, legally at least. But he’s popular. His fiance died, and, as many see it, he was cheated out of what rightfully belonged to him. I can’t get rid of him without risking some major unrest.” 
	“So I could side with Okirun instead of you?”
	Lynx looked up sharply. “You wouldn’t.” 
	“Well, say I did. Hypothetically. He would want the support of the D’nani, right? Or the blessing of a goddess?” 
	“I suspect he already has one,” Lynx snorted. “Okirun has the human vessel, or so he wants me to believe. But I don’t know what he intends to do with her other than bait me. But you don’t want to have to report to him. Okirun was noble born and raised in everything but name - he’s intelligent, calculating, and doesn’t hesitate to use people. Okirun wants a rule of the majority - a rule of humans. He believes in human superiority. He may pander and cajole and promise things to the D’nani and Azore, but ultimately it is the humans who support him and the humans who gain.” Lynx gave her a sideways glance. “Last time I checked, you weren’t human.” 
	“At least he wouldn’t blackmail me into joining him,” Starr said crossly.
	Lynx shrugged. “It’s not blackmail if the government is the one doing it. But yes, he probably would. I don’t think you understand. This isn’t personal - this is national. I have a job to do - so does Okirun, as much as I may dislike it. I’m going to do everything I can, use every tool at my disposal to accomplish it. I’m sorry if you’re unhappy, but that doesn’t effect my responsibilities.” 
	“I don’t understand you,” Starr said miserably. “Why didn’t you tell me who you are? Why all the secrecy? You give me all these lectures about responsibility and the greater good, but then spend all your time avoiding it. You could have been traveling with your retinue, and instead you make us ride through the mountains at night to avoid them!”
	“It wasn’t my retinue,” Lynx said reasonably. “It was Artensia.” 
	“That’s not the point! You only acknowledge your titles when they make you feel better about yourself! Otherwise you’re running away.” 
	Lynx wrinkled his nose. “That’s not it at all.” 
	“Oh? Then why are you out in the middle of nowhere with some commoner girl? You don’t even like me. I’m sure you could have passed me off to the pages or squires or whomever it is that follows you around, but instead you’re using me as an excuse to be alone. Does anyone even know where you are?”
	“I sent a message before we left.”
	“What message? ‘Traveling across the countryside, don’t bother to write’? If you’re going to talk big about your important responsibilities, shouldn’t you actually be doing something?All I’ve seen is bluster.”
	Lynx’s eyes widened and for a moment Starr thought she had gone too far. Instead, he looked up sharply, staring at the trees beyond. 
	“What is it now?” 
	Lynx scanned the trees before turning back to her, eyes wide. Keep talking, he mouthed. We’re being watched. 
	Starr stared at him, momentarily flabbergasted, before finding her words. “You - you’re selfish!” she yelled. Lynx crept towards the edge of their camp, focused on something in the woods beyond. “You only think of what you want, and disguise it as what’s good for the country. Why are you even doing this? You took the throne by force! You killed your sister! No wonder the nobles want you off of it!” 
	Lynx shot her an annoyed glance before slipping behind a tree trunk. He drew his sword. 
	“I don’t even know what you’re doing,” Starr continued yelling, color rising in her race “All I get are lies and half truths and manipulations. You don’t want to be king, you want to be king. Make up your mind already! I don’t know what it is you want! I don’t even know who you are, not really. Is your name even really Lynx? What do you want from me?!” 	
	With a cry, Lynx swung his sword in an arc, blade flashing in the mottled light. It collided with something else metallic - a man arose from the ground, blocking Lynx’s swing with a sword of his own. Lynx pulled back and circling his opponent - a human of mid years with a close cropped goatee. One of the riders from Artensia. 
	The rider lashed out, sword thrusting for Lynx’s ribs. The elf glided out of the way and appeared behind the other man. There, Lynx pinned the rider with one arm and used the other slit the rider’s throat. The rider gurgled in death and crumpled to the ground. Lynx stepped over the body.
	“Stand up,” he said, sword tip hovering over a pile of leaves. The younger rider sat up, displacing leaves. He put his hands in the air in a gesture of submission. “Take it easy,” he said. “I don’t want trouble.”
	“Trouble?!” Lynx frowned, but Starr interrupted him. She hadn’t finished her tirade. 
	“You killed him!” she said, shaking. “He did nothing but defend himself and you killed him. ”
	“Starr, can we talk about this later? Now is not the best time.” 
	“You’re a bully,” she glared. “You’re selfish and a coward and a bully.”
	Lynx raised an eyebrow. “Yes,” he said. “And you’re insecure, scheming, and attention-starved. Your point?”
	The rider covered his ears. “Please stop arguing,” he said. “We could hear you halfway across the mountains. I can’t take it any more.” 
	“Talk,” Lynx said, sword point hovering at the young man’s throat. “Or you’ll end up like your friend.” 
	“I have no interest in being dead,” the rider swallowed nervously. “You’ve got me. What do you want to know?”
	“Okirun sent you?” Lynx asked. 
	“Maybe?” the rider shrugged helplessly. “We get all our orders from the Artensian ambassador, Zaza Lacore. She’s his grace’s eyes and ears on the mainland.” 
	“I know her.” The dislike was plain in Lynx’s voice. “What were your orders?”
	“Head to Shicero. Recruit graduates for jobs in Artensia. The usual. We met up with the Artensian envoy to fill up their roster. Then we were sent after the girl here.” 
	“Why the girl? What do you know about her?”
	“Our rookie seems to have been familiar with her at some point,” the rider admitted. “Bragged about it quite a bit, too. But other than your majesty’s involvement, she’s unremarkable. No offense, miss.”
	“None taken,” Starr said, shaken. 
	“And now? What do you think now?”
	The rider’s eyes flickered towards Starr before replying. “If I had to take a gander, I’d say your majesty has a thing for redheads. Maybe the constant bickering is a turn on?”
	Lynx broke into laughter. “I wouldn’t say that,” he said mildly. He sheathed his sword. “If I let you go, what will you do?”
	“Not report to Zaza, that’s what,” the rider’s eyes lit up. “I like employment as much as the next man, but she’s not worth the paycheck. Maybe your majesty could offer me an alternative?” 
	“Sadly, no,” Lynx pursed his lips. “There’s no way Zaza would have sent just the two of you. Where are your companions?” 
	“Left them at the last village. I bet they’ll stay there till their funds run out and then head towards to Thamalia.” 
	“You could always turn back and tell them what happened,” Lynx suggested. “Tell them his majesty’s developed a taste for redheads.”
	“And have to tell that to Zaza? No, thank you,” the rider shivered. “They’ll be fine without me. Never really got along with Halfax and that Thoriphes has a nasty streak if you ask me.”
	“Well, Artensia’s out of the question,” Lynx said. He appeared to be enjoying himself. “If you want to head north, there’s a building project in Seriaff that’s in need of more workers. It’s a good place to disappear, too, if that’s what you’re looking for.” 
	“Thank you, sir, I’ll keep that in mind,” the rider said seriously. “Gods smile on Lyradis and Eltanin bless you.” 
	“Quite,” Lynx’s smile vanished. “My companion and I are going to mount up now and cross the mountains. If you decide to follow us, do it out of eyesight. If I see you again, I’ll assume you’ve changed your mind and are reporting to Zaza.”
	“Point taken, your majesty,” the rider scrambled to his feet, giving a hasty bow. “I’ll just stay here for a while, shall I? Seems a lovely place to camp.” His eyes fell on the body of his companion and he kicked at the leaves to cover the corpse. Lynx turned away. “Have a safe journey and a wonderful day!” The rider called after them. 
	“Why didn’t you kill him too?” Starr asked, voice low, skipping to keep up with Lynx.
	Lynx shrugged. “He didn’t attack me,” he said. It seemed a simple answer. 
	“What if he heads back? What if he tells Okirun?” 
	“Tells him what?” Lynx laughed. “That I picked up a redheaded girl who Thoriphes believes is human? Zaza won’t put it together and if the news ever gets to Okirun I doubt he’ll spare it a second look. No, you’re unremarkable. Consider it your biggest asset. Now mount up.” 
	
	“My name is Lynx,” he said uncomfortably after they had climbed a good distance further up the mountain. Starr was taken aback; Lynx was actually volunteering information. She urged her horse in line with his, not wanting to say anything that might begin another argument. 
	“Lynx is my private name,” he continued. “It’s...less formal. A nickname, maybe, is a good way of putting it. Elves - especially the more aristocratic elves - draw a distinction between public and private selves. A public name is everyone else’s to use; a private name is your own.”
	 “Your private name is Lynx? What’s your public name? Al Rys?” 
	“Lyradis al Rys, yes,” Lynx nodded. “But it becomes confusing being named after the country I’ve come to represent. I’m addressed by titles far more than I’m addressed by name. And the lines between my public and private lives are...less clear, now.”
	Starr considered. “What am I supposed to call you?” 
	“Whichever name you like,” Lynx seemed surprised. “My titles, my name, my position; I answer to it all. I offered you my private name. It seems rude to take it back, now.”
	“I can only think of you as Lynx,” Starr admitted. “I mean, lynxes are the seal of the Great God, and the animal worshiped by his followers. It’s almost the equivalent of being named “Unicorn,” or something equally horrendous.”
	Lynx winced before turning and looking her in the eye. “My mother,” he said stiffly. “had a strange sense of humor.” 
Starr couldn’t help but smiling.

(Chapter 14)

	The descent from the mountain was long and arduous and far more difficult than the climb. The road had been washed out in several places and once their progress was completely blocked by a landslide. Lynx made them unsaddle the horses and proceed the rest of the way on foot. 
	“This pass is under Duc Malthinae’s jurisdiction,” he said angrily. He had spent most of the climb down complaining. “He should be responsible for the road repair. But instead bloody Shicero just takes all of my money. And where does it go? Straight into the nobles pockets, that’s where.” 
	The path leveled out eventually and they stumbled out onto a meadow warm with sun, rippling in the autumn breeze wind. The stalks of grass had begun to go to seed and the heads dotted the landscape like tiny yellow wildflowers.
	Lynx was still grumbling to himself as they crossed the field, too busy worrying that Esroh might throw a shoe to notice Starr shivering. Her entire body was shaking, trembling as she held onto her horse’s reigns. The farther they progressed into the grass the worse it became, until finally her teeth were chatting in her skull. 
	Lynx paused in his complaints, the noise of chattering teeth alerting him. “Is something wrong?” he asked.
	“I-I-d-don’t know,” Starr shivered violently even though the day was warm. “It-t...it...I d-don’t feel well-l.” 
	Lynx frowned and felt her forehead. His hand shook, but it wasn’t from Starr’s shivers. 	Around them, in a low rumble, the ground had began to shake. The earth between them bulged upward like a bubble to be popped, before buckling under its weight and shooting out in ripples across the field. Lynx fell backwards off the bucking road, Esroh crying and prancing behind him. Starr’s horse screamed and bolted. Starr dropped the reigns, sinking shivering to her knees, as the world around them began to roar and tumble. 
	The earthquake crescendoed in a deafening cacophony, the ground tearing itself apart in fissures and ripples, before fading to a low rumble and then silence. Half the meadow now sat at an angle to the rest, a jagged green wedge jutting into the sky. Slowly, Starr removed her hands from her ears and looked around. A tree in the middle of the plane had fallen over and her horse was nowhere to be seen.
	“Lynx? Lynx?” She stood up, searching for him in the grass. “Lynx, what happened?”
	Lynx attempted to stand up, but the earth decided to shake again as a giant settling itself into rest. 
	He managed to stand and sooth Esroh, wary of any further aftershocks, but the earthquake had retreated into the distance like far-off thunder. 
	“You’re alright?” he asked Starr, feeling her forehead again. 
	“Yes, but my horse bolted,” Starr brushed his hand away. Her face fell. “Oh no. She took the supplies with her. My clothes were in there.” 
	“You can buy new clothes,” Lynx said distractedly. The earthquake was worrisome, the fifth one in two years on mainland Lyradis. They had only begun after his sister’s death. A cause? No, but they were certainly correlated. He wondered where the epicenter was; they had only felt an outlying tremor.
	“But those were mine,” Starr was saying. “And what will we do for food?”
	“There’s a village ahead,” Lynx said reassuringly. In truth, this boded poorly. It would slow them down at least he bought another horse and he hadn’t brought quite that much money with him. He’d have to resort to the seal hidden in his jerkin, a detriment to his desire to travel incognito. He preferred the workaround, but it required him finding a sufficiently official looking piece of paper. Perhaps the D’nani girl was right. Perhaps he did enjoy running away from his responsibilities. 
	No, don’t think like that. This was a necessity, a slight of hand to keep the nobles from cluing in on his doings. They would never oppose him outright, but many - including Landon - had already aligned themselves with Okirun. He hated to think what would happen if they realized his new traveling companion was a replacement for his sister. There would be a fair amount of cloying for Starr’s favor upon their return to Thamalia, but this way he was the one in control. He controlled a goddess and he would control her reveal. 

	The Ducdom of Thamalia was low and green, a series of lazy hills rolling peacefully towards the distant horizon. It was pleasant, Starr thought, a welcome change from the rocky forests of Shicero. Here the road was even paved, Esroh’s hooves sounding sharply against the ancient stones whenever the horse danced sideways to prevent them from riding her. Esroh was still skittish, unnerved from the shaking earth, and they traveled on foot.
	The village in the foothills was a ways off of the road, nestled peacefully among the waving grasses. Even for so remote a location the town was full of life and buildings, a central market for the farms of the lowlands. The earthquake had struck here, too; a stone well in the square lay in ruins. The inn itself was unscathed, a solid wooden structure with carvings around the doorframe. 
	Lynx lead them inside with a swagger. He leaned on the counter near the entrance, the tiny, wrinkled innkeeper looking up at him expectantly. 
	“Hello,” he said with a grin. “Two rooms please.” 
	The tiny woman glanced between him and Starr. “Carriage or horses?”
	“Horse,” Lynx said. “Singular.” 
	“One horse, one room. It’s the rule.”
	“Two rooms,” Lynx insisted. “We lost the other horse during the earthquake.”
	“Ah.” the woman nodded knowingly. “We’re spared the worst of them here. Travelers tell us things are worse in Kolouric.”
	“Really?” This was news to Lynx. Reports from the D’nani territory were either hard to come by or he just didn’t read most of them. He couldn’t remember which. “Do you get many travelers from Kolouric?” 
	“Refugees, mostly, and those who don’t like the way L’rehan runs things. Like your friend, I assume. You headed to Thamalia, hon?”
	Starr nodded shyly. 
	“Off to join a Traitor Tribe, I see,” the woman chuckled to herself. “I can’t say things are any better for your kind in Thamalia, dear. Artensia says there’s jobs across the ocean. They always send their folk through here. And they only get one room per horse.”
	“Two rooms,” Lynx said, showing teeth. His smile was blinding. “And I’m in the market for a second horse.”
	“Well...if you’re buying... Jarven has a stable across the square. Charges an arm and a leg for his mounts. Go through me and you get one for cheaper.”
	“I just want a horse,” Lynx said firmly. “But could I trouble you for paper and ink? Or a bath?”
	“Both available for a fee,” said the innkeeper. “There’s still dinner being served in the common room or there’s an alehouse down the road. A maid will show you to your rooms, all two of them.”
	
	Starr’s room was up a narrow flight of stairs and overlooked the broken well in the square. 
	“Sorry, ma’am, the lightspells shatter every time there’s an earthquake,” the maid who unlocked the door said, cheerfully lighting a candle on the mantle. “But there’s plenty of candles should you need another. I’ll bring up water to wash with?”
	“Please. Yes, that would be lovely,” Starr said eagerly. The maid hung about a few moments longer, looking expectant, before heading back down the stairs. Starr realized rather late that the maid had been in want of a tip. Starr had no money. She had spent the remainder of her allowance at the dealers hall in the convention and hadn’t thought to ask Ephiles for more before leaving. Ephiles never looked kindly upon requests for more pocket money. That left only Lynx, and Starr would have rather faced Ephiles’ full wrath than go begging the elf for money. 
	The maid returned, carrying a basin and a pitcher of steaming water. “Full bathes are being drawn,” she said, a little less cheerful than before. “But there’s no reason you can’t wash your face.”
	“Thank you,” Starr said, gratefully. “I’m sorry, I haven’t any money. But you can try the elf for a tip. I’m sure he’s good for it.” 
	The maid curtseyed rather sarcastically, and left Starr to wash up. 
	Finished, Starr rapped on Lynx’s door. 
	“Hello,” he arched an eyebrow at her through the crack in the door. “Does the inn suit your tastes? Or did you expect a gold plated chamber pot?”
	“It’s just fine, thank you,” Starr said stiffly. “Will the rest of the way to Thamalia be like this?” 
	“Probably.” The door opened the rest of the way and the elf leaned on the empty doorframe, arms crossed. Behind him was a desk with quill and paper. “But we could always camp again, since you enjoy it so much.” 
	Starr ignored him. “What are you doing?”
	“Writing myself a letter of credit,” Lynx grinned. He produced a small golden seal from a hidden pocket and waved it in front of her. “Easiest way to get money.” 
	“Oh,” Starr’s eyes followed the flash of gold. “Why not just tell them who you are?”
	“I don’t like playing the royalty card.” 
“That’s odd, because you do it rather a lot.”
	Lynx frowned. “Was there something you wanted?”
	“I -” Starr stopped. What did she want? Companionship? Someone to talk to? “The maid asked for a tip. I didn’t have any money.” 
	Lynx’s expression turned dark instead of merely sarcastic. “Here,” he said, pressing a handful of change into her palm. “Buy something nice. I don’t care. Now leave me alone.” He retreated into the room and slammed the door in her face. 
	Well then. With nothing else left to do and a small fortune in coin in her hand, she went downstairs to the common room for dinner. 
	The common room was occupied by large, worn tables and upholstered chairs, all of better make than anything she had seen in Shicero. Travelers and locals sat in every seat, eating, smoking, or chatting amicably. Starr was slightly intimidated; even though the inn was located in a relatively small village, the wallpaper was a finely patterned cornflower blue and the dishes and cutlery looked of expensive make. Either owning an inn was more profitable than she had considered, or Thamalia was drowning in money. She rather though a bit of both. 
	An open seat caught her eye; there was a table near the door with only one occupant, a boy her age swirling a spoon through a bowl soup. A tattered traveling cloak hung over the back of his chair and he looked remarkably lonely. 
	“May I sit here?”
	The boy glanced up at her address, his surprise melting into a huge, rakish smile. There were two triangular stripes tattooed across is lower jaw and his black eyes sparkled. 
	“Hullo,” he said, pointing at her with the soup spoon. “It’s not often you find a pretty girl willing to chat with strange men.”
	“I thought I’d cheer you up,” Starr admitted. “You looked lonely.” 
	The boy leaned back in his chair, arms above his head in a feline stretch, still grinning. “If I’m lonely, it’s by choice. The other ladies here just didn’t catch my fancy. I was resigning myself to another sad and lonely evening, until you came along and opened up my heart. Have a seat?” 
	Oh dear. Starr wondered if there was a polite way to extricate herself from the conversation. She looked around the room for somewhere else to sit, but every table was full. She slid awkwardly into the seat across the table, the boy smiling at her all the while. She found his smile unnerving.  She coughed into her hand.
	“Are you from these parts?” she asked.
	“Alas, no,” he stuck his spoon back in the soup bowl and regarded it forlornly. “I come much further north, from Yeeshran in the mountains. I’m on my way back now, after a journey of self discovery of sorts.”
	“Oh,” Starr said faintly. “That’s...interesting.” 
	“I sought an audience with the D’nani.” The boy wrinkled his nose. “But their leader wouldn’t see me. They’re very insular, the D’nani, you know?” 
	“I’ve never -”
	“The D’nani have red hair,” he interrupted, leaning over the table, “just like you. In Yeeshran, everyone the is same - dark if you’re young, light if you’re old. You’d never see a girl with red hair, not unless you went generations back and even then it’s not as red as the D’nani. But I like your hair,” he said thoughtfully. “It’s different.” 
	“You’re in my seat.” 
	They both looked up at Lynx, the elf standing with his arms crossed and displeasure etched in the lines around his mouth.
	“Your seat?” the boy said curiously. “I was here first.”
	“Don’t care,” Lynx said gruffly. “Move.”
	The boy glanced around at the common room, taking in the crowded tables and occupied bar. He shrugged and stood up, clutching is soup bowl to his chest. “Fine,” he said. “I was done here anyway. Give me a call if you get lonely,” he winked at Starr, smiled politely at Lynx, and headed out of the room.
	Lynx watched him go.
	“You shouldn’t talk to strangers,” he said, sitting down at the table. “Okirun probably has spies planted across all of Lyradis.” 
	“Then who am I supposed to talk to?” Starr said crossly. “Traveling is boring and you’re certainly not a barrel of laughs. And that boy was harmless. He didn’t even ask my name.” 
	Lynx grunted. “I thought you’d be grateful for the interruption. Your face looked like a trapped rabbit. But I suppose it’s alright to talk to Mountain People,” he admitted. “I doubt Okirun could buy them off.” 
	“Who?”
	“Mountain People,” Lynx repeated. He mimed the stripes on the boy’s face. “They come from the mountains in the north. It’s odd to see them this far south, but they do produce the occasional wanderer.” 
	“Are they human?” 
	“Close to. Mixed blood, far back. They separated themselves from the other races after the Holy Wars and chose to worship the Great God instead of any one Goddess. Both Mountain People and Uukar are closer to nature than any of the patron races. Some Mountain People can even turn into animals, or so the legends go. Like I said, they don’t venture out much.”
	Starr stared at him. “Uukar aren’t real,” she sniffed. “They’re creatures from stories.”
	Lynx stared back. “I assure you they are,” he frowned. “I have one as my manservant.” 
	They seemed to be at an impasse. “Was there something you wanted?” Starr tucked her hair behind her ears. “Or did you just interrupt me out of pettiness?” 
	


	I wonder if I need to change the tone of this beginning section somewhat to make it more serious...since now I’m considering an adult publisher? Unclear? Most of the opening sounds too young and is too dismissive of what’s going on - i.e. there’s no stakes and everything is la-di-da. Why are beginnings the hardest part? This is quite challenging. I’m sure I’ll figure it out eventually but I think I may need to come up with a completely new structure. 

(Chapter 1)
	That was odd. 
	On the bottom left corner of the page, drawn in slightly smudged blue ink, was a stylized crescent moon in a square. Starr didn't remember drawing it, and yet there was a pen in her hand and blue ink on her fingers. Had she daydreamed it? She tried to remember, but no, it was gone, the last of the daydream dissolving into consciousness. The rest of the page was filled with the stick figures that routinely replaced any effort in history class. Little stick mages fought imposing stick Elyan and and the battlefield was littered with ink blot casualties. The moon symbol didn't fit in at all. She tried to draw the symbol again, meticulously copying the unfamiliar design. Instead her lines were shaky and the result unrecognizable. With a shrug, she scribbled out her copy and set about incorporating the original into a new wave of stick figure warriors joining the battle.
	“Ten minutes remain. Ten minutes please, students.”
	Starr looked up in horror. She had just sat down! There was no way the entire period had passed. But Professor Rendis merely curled his fingers around the tiny silver bell in anticipation, ignoring the now frantic scratching of students’ pens. Starr glanced back down at her paper with rising panic. It was hopeless. She hadn’t made it past the first question and her sprawling drawing had nothing at all to do with the economic policy of Kan Makael the Great.
	When the silver bell rang, she was still considering her options in a frozen panic. Rendis’ voice was almost in the collective groan from the test takers.
	“Pens down. Tests in a pile before you go. Have a restful Firstfall, everyone.”
	There was nothing else she could do. Starr shuffled to the front of the room with the rest of the class, clutching the offending drawing to her chest. She had intended to shove it out of sight in the middle of the pile, but Rendis caught her eye, his expression twisted somewhere between disapproval and contempt. Starr faltered and threw her test on the top of the pile before hurrying out of the door. 
	It was cooler in the corridor, out of the way of the tall windows and slanting afternoon sunlight, and she finally could breath again. Rendis didn’t like her. She couldn’t blame him, not exactly; she had never paid attention in his class and saw no reason to start now. 
	An arm wrapped around her shoulders, yanking her to the wall and nearly off her feet. 
	“Hello there, little Starr-bright,” Jeanet said grinning maniacally through sheaves of fair curls, her face filling Starr’s vision. “And how was the test?” 
	Starr struggled out of her friend’s grip, scowling and rubbing her neck. “Leave off, Jeanet,” she managed. “Can’t you say hello like a normal person?”
	“What, and miss your charming death glares? How do you think you did? My study session worked wonders, didn’t it?”
	“The test was fine,” Starr lied, “but I ran short on time.”
	Jeanet’s face fell. “You failed it, didn’t you?”
	“No-o,” Starr said, feeling her cheeks color. “It’s just-”
	Jeanet groaned and put a hand to her forehead. “You failed! I bet you drew all over the essay questions again. After we helped you, too! Claron, listen to this!”
	“You called?” a tall girl joined them in the hallway, her face a solemn oval against her carefully styled, dark hair.
	“Starr failed another history test,” Jeanet told her. “Despite our study sessions.”
	Claron looked at Starr seriously. “Again? Headmistress Ephiles will kill you.”
	Starr opened her mouth to tell them about the strange daydream, but it had gone, leaving only a misty confusion. She shook her head, half to clear it, half in disgust. 
	“Sorry,” she managed to mumble. “I don’t know what came over me.”
	Jeanet tsk-tsked in annoyance and Claron shook her head. 
	“Ephiles won’t let you graduate if you fail another class,” Claron said warningly. 
	“Oh, please,” Starr’s temper rose. The test had put her in a bad mood. She had studied this time, too, and nothing had come of it. “It’s only history. And they wont dare expel me, not now I’ve come so close.”
	“Hmph,” Jeanet tilted her chin towards the ceiling. “Speak for yourself. Some of us have to actually work for our scholarships.” 
	Starr glared at her friend. Starr’s scholarship was little more than charity. It was like rubbing salt in a ten-year-old wound.
	“I’d make your grades if my boyfriend did all my work for me, too,” Starr snapped. “Where is Ikaru anyway? Too busy finishing your term paper to come to dinner?”
	“He never! And he’d help you with your studies, too, if only you weren’t too proud too ask!” 
	“Girls, girls,” Claron yawned. “Calm yourselves. It’s only an exam.” 
	This seemed too much for Jeanet. “Oh, shut up, Claron!” she yelled. “You can’t talk! Your father can pay the tuition!” 
	Claron looked at her blankly. “You may not own land,” she said, “but at least you won’t have to marry some penniless noble you’ve never met.”
	Starr and Jeanet exchanged glances. 
	“What in the world are you talking about?”
	“Father’s decided to marry me off once and for all,” Claron said. It was a statement of fact and she sounded more bored with the idea than anything. “Graduation’s right around the corner, isn’t it? And he’s found a suitable match. Son of a noble and everything. I may even inherit a title.”
	“When?” Jeanet managed to choke out.
	“When his father dies, what do you expect?”
	“I meant when do you get married, not when you inherit!” 
	“Well,” Claron said slowly, “nothing is set in stone, yet. I’m supposed to meet him over break. Father’s arranged an introduction. You’re welcome to attend, if you like.” 
	Starr was mildly mortified. “You never told us!” 
	“Why should I?” Claron tilted her head to one side. “You’d just disapprove. It’s not like you have anything better planned for graduation, after all.”
	Jeanet’s mouth opened and closed several times until she finally deflated like a windless sail. “I’m only looking out for you!” she said. “I have your best interests in mind!”
	“Really?” Claron said cooly. Jeanet looking out for her friends could quickly turn to bossiness. “Well, you’re invited. Father said I could have friends along for moral support, although he’d never put it that way.”
	Starr was stunned. Claron never needed moral support. She pushed past her shock valiantly, and managed to ask, “Will your father be at Assembly, then?”
	“Father never comes to Assembly,” Claron said, her voice icy. “He’ll be hosting the some local nobily and the king’s retinue 
	Luckily Jeanet was simply too surprised. Starr glanced between them and shook her head. 
	“I’m headed to Jeanet’s farm for break, Claron,” she apologized. “We have to leave right after Assembly or else we’ll never make it in time for Firstfall. Sorry. You always leave before Assembly anyway, or else we’d have told you.” 
	“Ah,” said Claron. Her face never showed much, but the corners of her mouth tightened. “Too bad, I hate Assembly.”
	Starr nodded. She understood. Seeing families lined up to pick up pupils always left her raw, and after ten years of Assemblies, the rawness had rubbed away to anger. She didn’t go to Assembly or any of the Sending Days if she could help it. 
	“Then you’ll be staying?” Jeanet said. Rather pitifully, Starr thought. 
	“Only until Father wants me home. I was hoping Starr would stay as well. Company would have been welcome.” 
	“You know I’d stay, Claron,” Starr found herself apologizing. “But Jeanet invited me.” 
	 “Of course,” Claron looked from one to the other. Her face was blank. “I’ll be seeing you, then.” She nodded once, dark ringlets tumbling over her shoulders, then turned and sailed off down the hallway. 
	Jeanet stared after her. “I never!” she said. “Claron, upset! She’s always so cool,” She glanced down at Starr, whose heart had followed Claron halfway down the hall. She sighed. “Come on, Starr. It will be all right. We’ll apologize to her before we leave for break. Tomorrow, at breakfast.”
	“Claron’s getting married,” Starr managed in a squeak. “What will happen?”
	Jeanet’s mouth went small and sour. “Nothing more or less than happens to all married women, I should expect,” she said and scratched the side of her nose absently. “Why, what did you think would happen?”
	The question corresponded with a tight, fierce uncertainty that she carried at the back of her throat. Claron was right; the end of school loomed in front of her, a sudden precipice in her comfortably routine life. The uncertainty swelled, leaving her unable to speak. 
	Jeanet studied her face and sighed. “Don’t worry about it,” she said, missing the reason for Starr’s panic. “You and I shall be spinsters together. We’ll adopt some of the stable cats.” 
	“What about Ikaru?” Starr said glumly. She knew they had hurt Claron’s feelings badly. The marriage had come as a shock.
“Won’t he have anything say about your supposed spinsterhood?”
	A shadow crossed Jeanet’s face. “I know you don’t like him,” she said, “but I have no illusions about our relationship. Ikaru’s going on to great things. He’ll get away from here, go to Thamalia, to University, and he’ll have no time for a farm girl like me.” She looked sharply at Starr. “You could, too, if only you studied!” 
	“And leave you and Claron?! Never,” Starr said, darting lightly around the precipice. “Farm girls and charity cases need to stick together.”
	Jeanet laughed lightly, not believing a word. “How about some dinner, then? We’ll leave Claron to cool off. She’ll be fine in the morning.” 
	 The exam had done funny things to Starr’s stomach. “I don’t think I could eat anything,” she said. “Can we skip? I need to finish up my magics essay before tomorrow, anyway.”
	“Fine by me. Shall I get Ikaru to do it for you? I hear he’s good at that kind of thing.”
	Starr elbowed her in the stomach. 


	Starr groaned and balled up her latest attempt at intelligent discourse, throwing it across the room. It bounced cleanly off of Jeanet’s head and landed in the wastepaper basket. 
	“Ouch,” Jeanet said, not looking up from her book. “Haven’t you finished that yet?”
	“No,” Starr said miserably. “I’m bad at everything.”
	“You are not,” she said. “I thought you were a star magic pupil or something. All I hear from Ikaru is how much Professor Alkine likes you.”
	“Ikaru beat me last exam,” Starr admitted.
	Jeanet rolled her eyes. “That’s just Ikaru, isn’t it? You can’t take him seriously or else he’ll make you feel like some kind of dullard. Believe me, I should know. Now do your homework or else we’ll never get to leave before Assembly. I want to leave before the rains start.”
	“Can’t,” said Starr. “Can’t concentrate.” 
	“Well, why ever not?!” Jeanet threw her book down, losing patience.	“We shouldn’t have skipped dinner, I’m starving.”
	Starr opened her mouth to explain just how complicated composite elements were, especially when they combined elements from different magical poles and found herself remembering her daydream instead. “I had a bad dream,” she found herself saying, lamely. 
	“You had a nightmare?”
	“No-o,” Starr was hard pressed to find words to describe it. “But it’s the reason I couldn’t finish my history test.”
	“A daydream, then? Have you been eating the cafeteria porridge again?” 
	Starr shook her head. “It was stranger than that,” she said. “And, I think I’ve had it before.”
	“Oh?” Jeanet’s interest was piqued. “When?”
	“I can’t remember. But it was so familiar - there were flames all around me and I couldn’t breathe. I was trying to get out of this, this cave, but I knew that if I did, everyone I loved would die.” Starr sat quietly, hands folded in her lap, trying to remember. “And then I saw this girl, just sitting, in a white room. It was if she couldn’t see me at first, but at the last minute she looked right at me, and she started screaming. I think she called me a thief.” 
	“That’s very strange,” Jeanet said eventually, breaking the heavy silence that had descended on the dorm room. “Doesn’t sound very much like a daydream.”
	“There was more,” Starr admitted, “but it’s not very clear. Everything came in flashes. When I snapped out of it, the exam was over and I hadn’t answered a single question.”
	Jeanet leaned forward conspiratorially. “Do you think the flames were from when Thoriphes -” 
	“NO!” Starr slammed her hands on the dorm room table. Jeanet winced. “No, it was completely different. And I TOLD you not to mention his name.”
	“Suit yourself,” Jeanet said, not bothering to hide her disappointment. “But you’ll have to tell me what really happened one of these days.”
	“No I don’t. I’m just going to keep it bottled up forever until it starts festering and rotting my soul black. That’ll show you.”
	Jeanet laughed despite herself. “Oh, all right. But I have an idea for making you feel better.”
	“Oh?” Starr watched as Jeanet dug in her school bag, pulling out a bundle of crumpled paper. “What is that?”
	“Your history notes,” Jeanet grinned. “I rescued them from the trash.”
	Starr groaned. “How is that supposed to make me feel better? I never wanted to see those again.”
	“Exactly,” Jeanet said, eyes twinkling mischievously. “I rather thought we could burn them. Or can’t you manage a simple fire spell?” she added, when Starr just stared at her, mouth open. 
	“In my sleep!” Starr said, but her heart had quickened in her throat. Magic outside of class was illicit; the very idea of an unsanctioned spell sent her heart racing with excitement. 

	“Can’t go to dinner, Ephiles will be there,” Starr said, distracted. She knew they had hurt Claron’s feelings badly. The marriage had come as a shock.
	“So? Are you avoiding the Headmistress now for some reason?”
	“Exam results,” Starr admitted. “If she catches me, she’ll make me stay through break for extra studies. She’s done it before.”
	“Starr!” Jeanet said, aghast. “Did you just lie to our very best friend about your plans for break? After I’ve welcomed you into my house and home. Mother even brought out the extra bed for your stay. And now you’re telling me you might not go?”
	“I said, only if she catches me,” Starr scowled. “Which is why I don’t want to go to dinner. She’ll be far too busy at Assembly tomorrow to do anything about it and we can sneak out as soon as the families get here.” 
	“But, poor Claron!” 
	“Poor me!” Starr said. “I’ve spent ten years as a charity case, taking breaks at school while the rest of you go off to your homes and families! I’m finally leaving the school and nothing’s going to stop me.”
	“Nothing?” a voice asked from behind them. It lingered on the question as a cat lingers in front of a mouse hole. “Not even your exam scores?”
	Starr and Jeanet both winced and turned around. Headmisstress Ephiles stood behind them, arms crossed disapprovingly, a tall woman made taller by childhood fears. Her hair was pulled back into a severe bun, round pince-nez perched at a perfect angle for looking down her nose at students. 

	Claron invites Jeanet and Starr to her Father’s estate over break. Her father happens to be hosting part of the King’ Retinue, of which Davelli (her future husband) is part of. While Lynx is supposed to be there, he has actually buggered off because his entire reason for the trip was to ask Ephiles (in person) to return to Thamalia (which she will not).
	When Starr sets off the fire alarm in the dorms, Ephiles learns that Claron invited Starr to her Father’s estate. Knowing Lynx will be there, she requires Starr to stay in the empty school over break as per usual, under the guise of redo-ing her history grade. In reality, Ephiles is trying to fulfill her primary objective of keeping Starr away from him. 
	On the way back to her dorm, Starr runs into Ikaru, Jeanet’s ex-boyfriend and Starr’s academic competitor in magics. She does not trust him, but he regards her as a friend and when he finds out she’s been sentenced to stay over break, offers to help with her homework. She refuses, and instead he asks her to meet him out behind the stables on the second day of Firstfall as he has something he wants to show her. 
	Starr, surprised, utters a non-comittal answer and returns to her dorm where she breaks Ephiles’ sentence to Claron and Jeanet. While they are comforting her, she lets slip Ikaru’s invitation, hoping to get a firm “by no way do you meet him” from her friends. Instead, Jeanet doesn’t seem to care what her ex is up to and Claron points out the only reason he asked for them to meet there is because the grounds lack fire alarms.
	Starr sits, disgruntled, through Assembly, where she spaces out and starts feed-back dreaming again. This time she can remember most of it when she comes to and is convinced, (light heartedly and since she can divine no other meaning from them) that they mean she is probably going to die. She says goodbye to her friends without mentioning the second dream and heads to the library to start work.
	Instead, Lynx has already traveled to the castle and is hanging around in the library, trying to work out what to say to Ephiles. This is where Starr finds him. 
	Lynx immediately recognizes her and with usual slickness, invites her to Thamalia as a “relocation scholarship”. After a brief and uncomfortable conversation, Starr, already annoyed with people in her life telling her what to do, tells him off for being smarmy. Lynx, to her surprise, laughs at her and tells her she reminds him of his sister. Starr very clearly sees him as a little boy with the same smudge across his nose, sitting in a white room with the girl from her daydream. Confused, she excuses herself and runs face into Ikaru. 
	By then Lynx has disappeared and Ikaru reiterates his invitation for the next night. The more Starr thinks about it, the more she realizes there’s probably nothing romantic involved and Ikaru is just somewhat naive about girls. While they are talking, Ephiles finds them, and Starr tells her about the Elyan with the scholarship. For an instance, Ephiles looks fearful, then sends them back to their rooms and reprimands them for talking to strange men. Starr is so annoyed at the rebuke she neglects to understand what Ephiles’ panic means.
	Ephiles finds Lynx examining a portrait of himself in the foyer, which, of course, looks nothing like them. The have an exchange similar to the one in the original manuscript, with Ephiles refusing to give him Starr, Lynx reminding her of her legal position, and finally, Ephiles refusing to return to Thamalia, ever, if he removes Starr. Disappointed and somewhat angry, Lynx storms off. 
	The next night, Starr meets Ikaru at the stables. Ikaru wants Starr’s input on a spell he’s been working on that will serve as his admissions project to the University in Thamalia. Starr asks, annoyed, why they have to be out in the cold instead of in a school lab, and Ikaru, surprised, replies it’s because there’s no magic sensors out here and he’s been working in the sheds next to the stables a lot (that explains why he smells like horses). Ikaru’s created a closed-loop “magic eater” spell. It absorbs all energy and magic that comes in contact with it in order to keep itself going. Starr is impressed, and Ikaru asks if she’s going to apply to the University as well. Starr tells says she wouldn’t have money to pay the tuition, as well as being doubtful as to her ability to get in. Ikaru says he was worried about paying the tuition as well and is hoping for a scholarship. This reminds Starr of her encounter with the Elyan from the previous day and, reluctantly, tells Ikaru he offered her a scholarship. Ikaru is flabbergasted when she says she turned it down, but she suggests he approach the Elyan for it instead. It would aid in his endeavor to attend the university. Ikaru then tells Starr that there’s a new training facility in Artensia that’s been accepting mages of all level and skill and that he’d apply there if he didn’t get into the university. He suggests that Starr apply there as well. Starr promises him she’ll consider it and goes to bed. 
	The next day, Starr decides to look for the Elyan and ask him more about the scholarship, but she can’t find him. Discouraged, but intrigued by the prospect of applying to the University in Thamalia, she goes out to Ikaru’s shed behind the stables. Her intent is to 
	
	

	The library was empty. 
	Of course it was empty, most of the other students were on holiday. In fact, even Professor Rendis had packed up and left immediately after Assembly. Unfair, she thought. With no professors around only the empty library was left to serve as her tutor. Three essays by the end of the week? And she had barely finished her magics one on time. She wondered vaguely where the history books were since she couldn’t remember the last time she had opened one. 
	
	“She’s bad luck.” 
	“What?”
	“She’s cursed - she has Reesimah’s touch. We cannot take her.” 
	“You’re kidding. She’s just a little girl.” 
	“Your tribe was just destroyed, boy. Whose fault was it?”
	“The Elyan! The Elyan, you stupid, old fool! The Elyan burned the Theran.”
	“And who brought them there, hmm? Who turned their eyes upon your village? The Goddess cannot forgive her people’s betrayal. We cannot take her.”
	“If she goes, then I follow! I won’t leave her!”
	“Then you’ve made your choice. Leave, before the Elyan decide to make examples of us all.” 

	The voices again. Starr didn’t know if they were hallucinations or memories and she didn’t care. She couldn’t sleep with them pounding in her head. She crammed the pillow over her face, willing the voices to stop, but they quickened into a steady buzz when she closed her eyes. She screamed in frustration, her cries muffed by the pillow filling her mouth. 
	 She swung her legs off the bed and sat up, noise in her head silenced by the sudden movement. The shattered light globes were a nuisance, she realized, straining her eyes in the dark, her head already aching. Something glinted on the table 

	 	“Failed another exam?”
	Starr shrugged and tossed another pebble over the wall. It disappeared into the seamless meadow below, disturbing not so much as a sparrow. 
	“I’ve never paid attention in Rendis’ class,” she said. “I don’t see much reason to start now.” 
	Claron sat down besides her, folding her long, think legs underneath her like a spider. “Ephiles won’t like that. She’ll make you redo the class.”
	Starr shrugged again. “I can only do the class so many times, Claron. Ephiles will have to let me go eventually.”
	“True,” Claron said. She stared out over the school grounds made golden with the afternoon sun. It was peaceful and warm and there was no wind. “Did you know,” she said thoughtfully, “that I’m getting married?”
	Starr stared at her. “What?! Claron, why?”
	“Father wants me too,” Claron’s voice was distant and she stared emotionlessly at the horizon. “He’s arranged it. My dowery is all packaged and catalogued and ready to be shipped to my future husband. He’s coming to Seyhill this week to sign the papers. Father’s invited all the local nobility for Firstfall in order to show off the match.” 
	“Claron, I had no idea. When did this happen?”
	“It’s always been going to happen,” Claron said, sadly. Her hair was plaited into its customary braid and she began to unweave it with her fingers. “Father wants his grandchildren to inherit a title. My future husband needs money for his estate. A perfect match,” she added, bitterly. 
	“I - I’m sorry, Claron,” Starr said. “I didn’t know.” 
	Claron shrugged. “I don’t know why you would - I didn’t tell anyone. Jeanet would flip and you would worry. I’ve known it was coming. And it’s not that bad, really. He’s in the King’s Own. He’ll take me Thamalia, I suppose, after I finish school.” 
	Starr squeezed her friend’s hand. “It will be all right,” she said, feeling useless. “I know you, you’ll be able to get anything you can set your mind too.” 
	Claron tore her eyes from the horizon and smiled, weakly. “Thanks,” she said, then hesitated. “Father said I could have my friends along for moral support, although he would never phrase it that way. Would you -?”
	Starr’s heart leapt. “Of course I would.” Starr had nowhere to go on school breaks. She had spent her entire school career stalking around the empty manor, feeling lonely and rejected and trying to avoid the attention of the faculty who lived on campus. A trip to Claron’s father’s estate was luxury. 
	“Thanks,” Claron nodded. “I need to ask Jeanet as well. But we’ll have to stay through Assembly. The carriage isn’t coming until the last day of Sending.” 
	“I don’t mind at all,” Starr said, although she hated Assembly and generally tried to avoid any event where the entire school gathered. “Your father doesn’t come to Assembly? 	“My father doesn’t come to much of anything,” Claron said, voice cold. “He’ll be too busy preparing the estate or the King.”
	“I - what?”
	

	“Why didn’t you tell me who you are?” Starr said. “Why all the secrecy?”
	Lynx shrugged. “I was avoiding my duties. I didn’t want to be reminded of my titles when I was trying so hard to avoid them. But would it have mattered? What would you have done if I had introduced myself as the King of Lyradis?”
	“I wouldn’t have believed you,” Starr admitted. “But you don’t do things properly! You should be wearing a cape and a crown and be followed everywhere by loyal advisors!” 
	Lynx looked at her sarcastically. “Why do you think I tried so hard to leave my escort behind? I hate that. People don’t respect me for me - they respect the symbols of royalty. I’m not a symbol; I’m me. Anyone who tells me otherwise is usually trying to make me do something.” 
	“But it is effective,” Starr pressed. 
	“I suppose,” Lynx admitted. “But given the opportunity, no - I’d rather do without. It works out just as well without the pomp.” 

Part 1 - Thamalia 

“How are we going back?” Starr said finally.
	 “Can you ride a horse?”
	“Me? No, I don’t like horses,” she said dismissively, then stopped as she realized the significance of the question. “We’re going by HORSE?” 
	“That had been my plan, yes,” Lynx said faintly.
	“But, you’re the King! Why not…a carriage, or something?” 
	“Too conspicuous,” Lynx looked at her stiffly. “And besides, I like horses.”
	“Then a transportation spell, maybe?” Starr suggested desperately.
	“Don’t know how,” Lynx said cheerfully. “Do you?”
	Starr paused and drew herself up to her full height. “Yes, I do, as a matter of fact,” she said excitedly. “I could transport and meet you there –“
	Lynx raised an eyebrow. “Do you know where to transport?”
	Starr’s hopes sunk. “No,” she said, crestfallen. “I don’t.”
	“Then horse it is!” Lynx smacked her happily on the back. “You can just ride with me – you’re small enough. That way I won’t have to buy another one! Solves all my problems,” he grinned widely at her, expecting her to be pleased.
	“You mean, we’ll be on the same horse?” Starr felt weak. This wasn’t going at all the way she wanted it. 
	
	“That’s a pretty unusual name,” Starr said suddenly. “I mean, lynxes are on the seal of the Great God, and the animal worshiped by his followers. It’s almost the equivalent of being named “Unicorn,” or something equally horrendous,” she frowned at Lynx, watching his wince with an annoyed curiosity. He turned and looked her in the eye.
“My mother,” he aaid stiffly. “had a strange sense of humor.” 
Starr couldn’t help but grinning.

	“Look,” he sighed, “I don’t care what you do with your life, I don’t care what you think of me, and I certainly don’t care how you’re feeling; all I care is that you,” he poked her in the collar bone, “come to Thamalia and stay there. This is something I am going to make happen even if I have to tie you up and drag you there on the back of Esroh.”
	Starr opened her mouth to speak but Lynx held up a hand.
	“And when we do get to Thamalia,” he said dangerously, “what happens there is completely up to you. I’m perfectly willing to treat you as what you currently are; a guest of the royal family, complete with all the luxuries and freedoms that entails. But if for some reason you happen to see yourself differently, as, oh, say, a D’nani prisoner of an Elvan repressive regime, I’m more than prepared to adapt to meet your expectations. And believe me,” he said darkly, “I’m good at meeting expectations.” 
	Starr swallowed angrily. “You’re an Elf! You killed my family.”
	Lynx looked at her, oozing sarcastic boredom. “That was my mother. And she was only doing her job, given the political pressure to maintain economic connection with the D’nani homeland. I very much doubt she had anything personally against the D’nani as a people.”
	“Of course she did!” Starr was shaking. She was digging herself deeper and deeper into a hole. There was something about him that made her angry. There was something about his calm, careless, frustratingly superior demeanor that just served to rub her the wrong way. She doubted she even registered on his world landscape and it made her angry. Very angry. 
	Lynx’s expression contorted, staring at her with 

	Lynx narrowed his eyes. For a brief second, Starr was frightened, worried that he would become angry and lash out against her. Instead, he sighed and met her gaze.
“I’m doing this because I have to,” he said, with wide, pleading eyes. “Why don’t you understand that?”
Starr sniffed stiffly, uncomfortable under his stare. “I don’t understand because you haven’t told me. Some of us aren’t psychic.”
Lynx blinked at her a couple of times and cocked his head to one side. He appeared to be thinking.
“I killed my sister,” he said simply. “Everybody knows it, even if they don’t like to talk about it. It’s one of the things that the government kept quietest about, so therefore everyone on the continent knows about it. 
“It was an accident, really. We were touring the western coast; a progress to announce my sister’s engagement. My sister, as Queen, was visiting as a gesture of good will, and I, as Prince Consort, was accompanying her. Many of the settlements there had become restless under the influence of the D’nani in particular and we hoped to pacify things before any violence broke out. Unfortunately, somehow word got out that I was there purely to scout for new military bases in the southern half of Lyradis. It's what the Prince Consort is supposed to do, really. Anyway, we were attacked. Half the trouble had been about the military that existed in the south already, so it was a rumor designed for the sole reason of stirring up trouble. 
“A small group of rebel D’nani attacked us on the road between near Amynnis. I don’t know if you’re familiar with the place; it’s very close to western cliffs overlooking the sea. These were the very D’nani my mother had tried to put down years before. You were probably too young at the time to understand or know this, but they advocate an violent coup of Elvan rule, something which we obviously can’t allow. It’s kind of ironic really; by attacking your village ten years ago, my mother insured the dissenters a place in the D’nani senate. They’ve been gaining more and more control of the political system there, which is why we’ve been having so much trouble recently. 
“When they attacked, it was almost dark. The sun was setting over the western cliffs. We had been aiming to reach Amynnis by nightfall, but we were held up in Reiji by a phony distress signal some of the mages picked up from within the town. In retrospect, it was a very obvious trap. By postponing our outset, the D’nani made us extremely vulnerable.  Our group was looking for a place to camp, not an easy feat as we had an entire platoon with us and most of the Queen’s Guard. 
“Just as we cleared the forest around Amynnis and entered the highland above the cliffs, the D’nani attacked. Most of my platoon was slaughtered and the Queen’s Guard taken by surprise. 
“I am Prince Consort; it is my job to ensure the safety and the might of the elvan monarchy. I took my sister and fled toward the sea. Stupid, really. I had forgotten that the land dropped off that way. We were surrounded very quickly, just Elania and I back to back. Elainia was always a very talented magic user, her talents never lay in combat. Mine do, though. I’ve been trained since I was six to fill the roll of Prince Consort. When it became clear that I wouldn’t let them through...that they would have to go through me to get to Elania... Well, that’s when it happened...” Lynx trailed off. He sighed.
“It wasn’t the first time I’ve...done something like that. They say it runs in my line, that male Elyan are inherently unstable. Sometimes, some things…make me dangerous. I just…lose control. 
“It’s not the D’nani’s fault, really. I don’t remember killing most of them, nor driving the rest off. Elania must have approached me after, because the next thing I remember is removing my sword through her abdomen. 
“She died almost instantly and there was nothing I could do to help her. I carried her back to Thamalia on Esroh.” 
“Elania was the vessel for the Goddess Eltanin. Eltanin’s powers are passed down through our family line; when one Queen dies, the next Queen is chosen out of her children by divine intervention.  Basically, Eltanin chooses a new vessel out of the female successors. Unfortunately, that didn’t exactly happen this time. 
“Somehow, all that power went to me. The Elvan birthrate has decreased dramatically over the past ten years; it’s possible that there was just no member of the royal family with pure enough heritage other than myself, but for some reason or another, I have it now.”
Lynx paused and rubbed his forehead. “It’s making me sick,” he said. “It’s not my magic and my body is rejecting it. I…have trouble controlling myself now and most of my abilities are sensitive beyond usefulness. Not only can I not function this way, but somehow my existence like this is throwing the world out of sink. I’ve researched it and researched it, but the only ways out of it that don’t end with a permanent imbalance of power are to either restore the Goddesses, or kill myself. That’s why I need you,” he turned to her pleadingly.
Starr flinched away. She couldn’t manage to say anything, much less meet his eyes. 
Lynx seemed disappointed. His expression flashed quickly from earnest to haughty and he brushed hair out of his eyes. “I didn’t expect you to understand,” he sighed, “but it would have made things easier.”

“How can you not hate the D’nani,” she said after a while. He mouth had gone extremely dry, “after what they did to you?”
“Hmm?” Lynx said and shrugged. “Like I said, it wasn’t their fault. I’m responsible for my own actions. I don’t want to spend the rest of my life seeking revenge or something like that, when I know deep down all the blame lies on me.  I should have been the one in control and I wasn’t. That’s all there is to it. “
Starr stared at the ground. ‘That’s not the same,” she whispered. 
Lynx looked sadly at her and shrugged again. Somehow, it was too much trouble to reply. 

	He shrugged. “There haven’t been any Elyan born in the last two years.”
	She stared at him. “You’re kidding.”
	“No,” he said, staring into space with a sort of distant interest. “I’m not. We’re nearing the end, I think,” he said sadly. “Our race was always a strange one – Eltanin designed us as to have a huge number of Elyan in the beginning and to consolidate our numbers as time went on. The logic being if a race takes control early enough then consolidating power helps to maintain that control. Individual Elyan get more powerful with each generation; I’m stronger than my mother and she was stronger than hers. But,” he sighed, “I hate it to end like this.”
	“How?” she leaned closer, entranced. 
	“It’s impossible to get Elyan to do anything,” he frowned. “Point out their impending demise and they’ll all just stare off into the distance and look wise.” Starr bit her lip. Lynx had a bad habit of doing the same. “The Elyan just expect it to work out for them in the end. And we’re so spread out now…not consolidated at all. Most of us just want to live our lives and not be bothered with anything so grand.”
	“Hasn’t anyone pointed this out before?”
	“Of course,” Lynx leaned back. “People have been predicting the end of the Elyan ever since Kanrashee founded the Creed at the end of the Holy Wars. He claimed to have been told the future by the Great God himself. Guy was nuts. No one listened, understandably. The Ukaar have been particularly vocal, though. They’re afraid they’ll share the same fate.” 
	“Ukaar aren’t real,” Starr scowled. “They’re made up by the anticreedists.”
	Lynx blinked and scowled as well. “I assure you, they are. I have one as my manservant.”
	They seemed to be at an impasse. Starr looked away and twiddled a thread on her skirt, changing the topic nervously. “How many Elyan are left, then?” glanced up shyly. Lynx was examining her with a fiercely blank expression.
	“Less than two thousand,” he said and shook his head. “I know, less than one percent of the total population and we still control major politics. Well, I try to, at least. Don’t look at me like that,” he added reproachfully at Starr’s disbelieving look. “You may think that Elyan are stuck up pretentious bastards and, hell, I’m the first to admit we are. But I don’t think that makes it right for an entire people to die out. Eltanin made us this way, sure – but she didn’t get our permission first.” 
	Starr pressed her lips together, thinking. It seemed ridiculous, hating an entire people when there weren’t all that many to hate. An inefficient use of energy, it was, really.

	Lynx snorted derisively. “Elves,” he said. “We’re slowly dying, but whether that’s Eltanin’s fault or our own it hardly matters. The Humans say we forgot to reproduce, as that’s what happens when you put women in charge.” He shook his head. “Elvan women were always in charge, even when the leaders were male. They ran most of the communes in the Holy Wars when the Warlords were consumed with the fighting. They might not have governed formally, but they at least had equal footing. When

	(AN: this needs to come when they’re still in Shicero, I think)
“Who’s Okirun? You keep mentioning him, but I’ve never heard of him before.”
Lynx shrugged noncommittally. 	
“Okirun is…the Artensian Regent.” 
“Wait...what happened to the old guy? Pernov…or something.”
Lynx gave her a strange look. “Pernov was disposed of nearly three years ago. Okirun is Regent now.” 
Starr coughed uncomfortably and Lynx continued:
	“You’re probably too young to remember, but there was an enormous commotion in Artensia twenty-five years ago. The Elvan Regent, ,had fallen in love with a Human noble and set out to marry her. The Elvan government in Lyradis, er…my mother, actually, was not about to support what she viewed as a human abomination in a pureblooded rule. So …’s brother, Pernov, was…encouraged to do something about it. Pernov kicked his brother off the throne and became regent instead. and his Human wife were exiled to Ta’ac.
	“In Lyradis, the House of Lords were sympathetic to the Human cause and wanted to get back at my mother for her show of Elvan dominance. So when Human wife had a son, it was a simple matter of smuggling the family back into Lyradis.”
	“And the son is Okirun?”
	Lynx nodded. “Okirun was sent to the best schools and academies, all the while disguising his heritage. Eventually, though, his father’s presence in the country was discovered and his family…destroyed. Okirun was shuffled to safety, presumably back in Ta’ac and within the following year, he lead a primarily Human revolt in Artensia and disposed Pernov.”
	
	“Why don’t you use the royal ‘we’?” 
“Should I?” Lynx said with his usual vague disinterest. He wasn’t paying attention to her any more than usual. Starr set her mouth determinedly and decided this time to press it. He was going to notice her. 
“I would think so,” she said, chin raised defiantly. “The Nobles are always so obsessed with form and titles. I’d think they’d expect it.” 
Lynx regarded her dourly, then frowned, and pursed his lips. He seemed to be actually considering giving a response. “The royal ‘we’,” he said eventually, “comes from the concept of multiple bodies. The Queen is both who she is as a person and who she is as an office. When she speaks, it’s as both a person and an entity.”
“So?”
“So? I’m not an entity; I’m me. Anyone who says differently is trying to make me do something.”

	“That’s an interesting sword you have there.”
	“What?” he jerked his hand away from the hilt and stared at it suspiciously. ‘Oh, Yes. I suppose.”
	‘What is it, D’nani made?” 
	Lynx blinked. “I don’t know. Is this really important? We’ve got to –“
	“I don’t suppose it’s magic or anything?”
	Lynx’s eyes crossed themselves into a furrow of sarcasm. “If you must know, it’s always sharp.”
	“So, no spell of bloodlust? No power to awake the dead?”
	“Just sharp,” Lynx said firmly. “And it doesn’t rust.”
	Starr looked disappointed. “Supernaturally sharp?” she said hopefully. 
	“No. Stop asking questions,” he pushed the sword to the side and out of sight. 

“You disappear for days beyond your intended travel time! You don’t show up for your duties, you don’t send word, then I get a message that you’re leaving Shicero early, but it will take you almost twice as long to get back?! What were you thinking? Do you have any idea how difficult it is to keep everything under wraps with you gone? It was sheer luck that Adamail had the Command inspected on Palace grounds – “
	“I very much doubt anything Adamail does is luck,” Lynx said mildly. 
	“Don’t interrupt!” D’li spat. “If Parliament had been called –“
	“Parliament was not in session. That’s why this infernal trip of yours was supposed to be safe. If Landon had called Parliament, it would have been forced into the open what he was trying to do and the Creed would have stopped him.” 
	“The CREED?!” D’li yelled. “How can you be sure the Creed will do anything?!” 	“I CAN’T!” roared Lynx back. “BUT THE NOBLES DON’T DARE DO ANYTHING OUTSIDE THE REALMS OF LAW. THEY’RE NOT GOING TO DISPOSE ME JUST YET!” 

	Starr awoke to find a cat on her. 
	It was sitting on her chest, licking one gray forepaw. She looked at it in surprised and it looked back at her with self-assured yellow eyes. It finished cleaning itself,  blinked slowly, and appeared to go back to sleep. 
	Starr pushed herself upright, dislodging the cat. It jumped up daintily, retreating to the exact center of the bed and stretching its back in an arc. It started licking itself again, pausing only to shoot Starr a disdainful look. 
	“Hello,” Starr said to the cat. “How did you get in here?”
	When the cat did not reply, Starr slowly reached for it, stroking its ears. It batted its head against her palm enthusiastically and began to purr. She cooed to it softly, stroking its soft fur. 
	“You’re probably the nicest thing I’ve met since coming here,” she told it. “Prettiest too. But I bet all the girls tell you that.” 
	The cat wound around her arm, licked it experimentally, and then dug its claws into her. Starr yelped, but the cat held on, flopping over and kicking her arm with its hind legs. 
	Starr grabbed her hand away and shooed the cat off the bed, nursing the multitude of scratch marks that now marred her arm. 
	The door to the chamber opened suddenly and a maid ran in. 
	“Miss!” she cried. “I heard a commotion. Is everything alright?”
	“It’s fine,” Starr rubbed her arm. “There was only a cat.” The cat, now bored with all people, trotted causally out of the open door. The maid watched it go. 
	“Why does everything here have claws?” Starr asked unhappily.
	The maid’s eyes widened as she saw Starr’s scratches. “Oh, Miss, you’re hurt!” she said worriedly. “I’ll find something for the scratches. I do apologize for the cat. His Majesty keeps them and they manage to get everywhere, no matter what we do.” She spread her hands helplessly. 

	Starr sat in the warm bath and blew bubbles along the surface. They skidded across the soapy water and burst, sending tiny drops to splash on the sunken tile floor. She hugged her knees, feeling uncomfortably naked in the metal tub.

	She stood on her tiptoes to reach the window and pushed it open with a brush of her fingertips. Cold air blew across her face, carrying with it the noises of the traffic below. She took a deep steadying breath, feeling the thick air fill her lungs, smelling the plants and the life and the salt of the ocean. 
	Ocean, she thought. I’m by the ocean. Have I seen the ocean before? So many things were still resting at the back of her mind, waiting to be called up and reexamined. 
	She folder her arms and rested her chin on the window sill. The window was tall and narrow, triangles of clear glass set with ornamental shapes and colored pebbles towards the top. She couldn’t see the ocean from here - the room looked out over a wide stone courtyard dotted with old trees. She could barely see the ground below from her vantage point -- only hear the muffled conversations of people below and the muted bubble of fountains. 
	A particularly salty gust of air tickled her nose, and she squinted, doing her best to refrain from sneezing. She had seen the sea before, and more than just a gray smear on the horizon. She remembered it, bright blue against red cliffs. The D’nani were sailors -- they built the best ships and knew how to use them. Her father had been a sailor, she realized, but not a very good one. He had died at sea when she was four. Her mother had taken her and moved away from the blue sea and the red cliffs, moved inland to a tribe in the mountains. And then...then she hadn’t seen the sea again. 
	Starr stared wordlessly out the window. It was quite a shock realizing that her parents were dead and realizing even that she knew them. It was almost like losing them again. 
	No, not like it at all, she though, remembering the sight of flames and the smell of smoke. There was a sharp intake of breath that she hardly noticed, caught up as she was in the memory of her burning village. The pain was less sharp, more like a pang of guilt or regret than sudden absolute misery. She pictured her short layered hair curling with the heat of the flames, her mother trapped beneath a fallen support beam...
	Starr shuddered, very real tears splattering on her wrists and the cool covering of the window sill. She was alone and had never before realized it; after telling herself for eight years she was alone in the world, the truth hurt more than any illusory pain. The moist ocean air swirled around her, thick with the noise and smells of life, and she had never felt more miserable. 

	Lynx surveyed the dimly lit Chamber, only the oncoming twilight that slanted through the colored glass windows illuminating the room. The paneled Chamber was dark and still and Lynx’s steps echoed soullessly in the emptiness. 
	The Lord’s Chamber had seats for the upper Nobles, arranged in five sections with carved wooden chairs for the Dux at their heads. The seats were more like carved and polished indentations in rows of benches than actual individual chairs, but the deep, rich wood matched the sumptuous paneling on the walls. The Chamber had always had a feel of opulence and wealth and slightly fragrant smoke hung on the air…
	The Chair at the head of the Chamber was his. His chair – the Queen’s Chair – was a presence in itself and the peeling gold leaf along the wooden detailing did nothing to diminish its magnificence. Behind it sat the Chairs for the King, the Prince Consort, and the Racial Consuls – as empty now as they had been for years. He examined them bleakly, thinking. 
	“Working late, your Majesty.” 
	Lynx turned slowly and greeted Dux Landon with a stiff nod. The Dux bowed without irony, silhouetted against the door frame. 
	“Anyone unfamiliar with your sleep patterns, my Lord, might be concerned for your safety. His Majesty, the King, out wandering at night, without an escort? And in the Chamber of all places, not the safety of the Palace.” 
	The light had almost left and Landon was now merely a dark figure in the door. Lynx closed his eyes and turned away. 
	“I was simply thinking, Dux Landon,” he said. He was surprised by the severity of his voice. It resonated around the Chamber, as rich and dark as the wood paneling. “The Chamber seemed the place to do it.”
	“Ah,” said Landon. “So our King is contemplating matters of state? I am glad. Your Majesty is very diligent.”
	“What do you want Landon?” Lynx couldn’t help sounding tired. “You’re working late as well.” 
	“Like yourself, I have matters of state to attend to,” Landon said flatly. “The country does not run itself.” 
Lynx walked over to the Queen’s Chair and sat in it. Nothing like a large, elevated throne to give one a sense of importance. Landon followed suit. He sat in the Chair nearest to him. It was Zumdhal’s. 
“Then how is the country running?” Lynx asked as Landon settled himself. 
“It goes,” said Landon, “although your Majesty’s frequent absences are disheartening to many.” 
“State functions, Landon. It’s required of me,” Lynx said. He was starting to wonder when the light spells would come on. It was almost completely dark in the Chamber. 
“Of course I realize that, your Majesty,” Landon said politely and rocked back in the Chair. “Others though…they are not so understanding. The Human contingency is not happy, my Lord.” 
“When have they ever been?” Lynx said unhappily. He tapped his fingers on the throne. “What do you want this time?”
The darkness only deepened the lines of worry on the duc's face. “Nothing much new, my Lord. I believe 

They seemed to be directing her to a double door set in the far side of the throne room. It was ornate, polished wood set in a gilded frame, but there were other doorways far more impressive elsewhere in the palace and she had failed to give it a second look. 
	Starr thanked them and, slightly puzzled, moved across the throne room. 	
	She regretted her heavy boots almost immediately. They sounded out clearly despite her best efforts to walk quietly, ineloquent thuds against the reflective marble floor. The throne room was built to resonate, and her footsteps turned into a giant’s thunder. The people standing around turned to watch her almost at once, and Starr felt her face flush under their curious and disapproving glares. By the time she reached the door, her face was a brighter red than her hair. 
	She clutched the doorknob, trying to stand as straight and proudly as possible. It did no good. The door was more elaborate than she had thought from the other side of the room and she could see the fine clothes of the people staring at her from the corners of her vision. She felt very small and common, still in her simple gray dress, her hair cropped short instead of the complicated braids of noble’s wives. This is ridiculous, she thought. This entire city is designed to intimidate.  All this finery! Who needs it? And she very purposefully opened the door and strode inside. 
	More people turned to look at her as the door slammed closed behind her. It was worse here, if possible. She stood in the a long hall way that obviously served as a waiting room, low sofas and comfortable golden chairs placed against either wall. The walls were decorated with the red patterned silk that seemed to serve as a very fine wall paper and with gold ornamentation sculpted everywhere. The lights all came from gold sconces set in elaborate swirls and the ceiling was paneled with wooden designs almost rivaling those carved into the marble floor. Her knees felt weak and she slithered shyly into a decorative chair. So much for being defiant, she thought. She felt utterly defeated, overwhelmed by the dazzling interiors and people around her. She knew it was an absolutely absurd use of money – what a way to treat a room! – but that didn’t stop the gaudiness from having its intended effect. Imagine living here, she thought. I don’t think I could stand it.
	She glanced about the hall, finally, looking for another way out. She wanted to leave, desperately, but the thought of walking back through the throne room made her almost nauseated. There was a simple door at one of the narrow ends of the hall through which she might escape, but it would require walking past all the people sitting and waiting. There weren’t that many, she admitted to herself, but they still made her feel dreadfully embarrassed. Her spectacle over, they all had returned their attention to yet another double door set in the opposite wall. It was paneled and carved wood, still ornate, but thankfully not covered in gold. She frowned at it uncertainly then noticed the person standing in front of it. 
	It was the Ukaar that had met them at the Palace doors when they first arrived. Lynx had said he had one as his steward. It stood purposefully in front of the door, wearing a waistcoat almost as fancy as the patterned silk on the wall and mumbling to itself, scribbling notes down on a clipboard. The effect was close to absurd; Ukaars were so fluid and full of life that Starr was suddenly positive they belonged somewhere green and with lots of trees, instead of this gaudy mansion. 
	Starr strode up to the Ukaar, purposefully ignoring the people around her. She hoped she appeared braver than she felt.  
	“Hello,” she said as the Ukaar looked up at her expressionlessly with its disquieting multifaceted eyes. They were black glass, reflecting the glitter of the gold and the lights. “I would like to see the King.”
	The Ukaar bowed. “Of course, Miss Starr.” Starr blinked at it several times, wondering how it knew her name. “You may go in any time, but I can’t guarantee he’ll see you,” it adjusted the pencil in its long tentacle-like fingers and started to write again. 
	“Hold on,” said Starr. “I can go in? Just like that?” Her thoughts were of the people sitting behind her.
	“Yes,” said the Ukaar seriously. “His Majesty was wondering when you would come find him.” 
	“Oh,” Starr said. She remembered the Ukaar’s name. “D’li, was it?”
	“Yes, Miss.” Starr wondered if it was just her imagination of if D’li was looking at her sarcastically. “Shall I open the door for you, or are you able to do that yourself?” 
	“I’m fine, thank you,” she said hastily and found herself being bustled through yet another door. 
	The room beyond was bright and white. Thank goodness, was Starr’s immediate thought. No more gold! But then her eyes adjusted and she saw it was just as ornate as anywhere else in the palace, only much more messy. 
	Every square inch contained stacks of books or scrolls. Paper was strewn about the floor, edges sticking out in piles or between the pages of books. She had stepped into a library, or a study of sorts, bookshelves extending upward into a second story. Curving wooden ladders led between the two levels, with carved railing to match running elegantly about the landing. Where not covered in shelves, the walls were lined with dark wooden panels, themselves hung with curtains of white silk, timid gold detailing painted carefully at the edges. The books took up so much room that there seemed to be no space for more complicated decoration. Sofas and chairs sprawled on ground floor, red and squashy, and hardly gaudy at all. All most all of them were covered in reading materials and there was decidedly nowhere to sit. 
	It wasn’t quiet at all, not like a library. Servants were rushing in and out of a dim arched doorway and there were people yelling. No one appeared to have noticed her come in. 
	“No, I will not,” a familiar voice said crossly. It was coming from behind a stack of books. “I’ve told Landon that ten times.” 
	Starr tiptoed around the edge of the room until her view was no longer obscured. There was a blonde man sitting at a large, dark desk, looking rather put-upon. It was Lynx, she realized suddenly, but he had cut his hair. He looked odd, competent almost, and practically unrecognizable without his green traveling tunic. He was dressed instead in a vest of red and gold brocade over a full dark shirt, with swirls of embroidery at the cuffs and collar. Starr realized, amused, he almost perfectly matched the décor of the rest of the palace. That he was angrily waving a piece of paper in someone’s face somewhat ruined the effect. 
	“Look!” he was saying. “Look! Increased lumber production, new forges, whole ports closed for no proper reason. Do you think I’m just going to let this go?” 
	The person Lynx was yelling at seemed to be young and pale and not all that important. An assistant, thought Starr, or a messenger. The man mumbled something incoherently and Lynx looked at him, disgusted. 
	“I’m sure you’d want that,” he said in reply. “I only have a month left to attempt anything. Remind your master. D’li will show you out,” he turned back to his desk with an air of finality and picked up a pen. 
	Starr scrambled backwards, lest she be accused of spying, and knocked over a stack of books. They crashed to the floor and the messenger and the few servants all turned to look at her. Lynx hadn’t moved. He continued to scribble at his desk. 
	The messenger glanced between Lynx and herself, then seemed to straighten. “Your Majesty,” he said clearly, “I think there’s someone here –”
	“Oh, do go away,” Lynx interrupted and slammed the pen into an ink pot. He looked at the servants standing demurely in the room. “Gehst, show him out, would you?” 
	A footman glided effortlessly thought the clutter of books and bowed to the messenger. The messenger’s face by now was almost red with anger. He had, after all, been only trying to help. 
	“I’m sure Dux Landon will love to hear of this,” the messenger said warningly. 
	“He always does,” Lynx said making it very plain the messenger was boring him. “Gehst?” The footman nodded and escorted the messenger out of the double doors, keeping a light touch on the man’s elbow. 
	Lynx sighed and turned to Starr at last. He looked at her without the slightest hint of recognition and blinked several times in puzzlement. 
	“What was your name again?” he said vaguely. 
	Starr stared at him, disbelieving, almost trembling as rage coursed through her. It made her ears and cheeks burn. Why had she convinced herself to come here, she wondered. Everything, everything was terribly wrong. 
	“I’m Starr,” she said, fighting to keep her voice even. She’d spent the past two weeks as his only company, deluding herself into thinking she mattered. 
	Lynx only gazed impassively at her. “No,” he said at last, his eyebrows perched thoughtfully. “No, I don’t think you are.” 
	Starr started, her anger faltering. Lynx turned back to his desk and dug eagerly through its over-full drawers. He knocked books aside and unfurled some very large scrolls across the top. 
	“I looked into it,” he was speaking excitedly, but he addressed the air, or the surface of the desk, and was not looking at her at all, “and to be a vessel, you’d have to be related to Kavendar all the way back. These things tend to be hereditary, after all. Now, the most obvious track puts you in the Theran tribe, but after 600 years, everyone intermarries and the blood gets all mixed up. We used to have pretty good records, but after relations fell apart things were never updated. Still, I think I’ve narrowed it down to two possibilities based on the last completed D’nani census – ten years ago, you should be on it.” 
	This seemed to Starr to be unbelievable. Before she could even fathom what had just happened, she had edged closer to the desk despite herself. There were several huge, tattered family trees spread out horizontally on the scrolls. She gazed dazedly at their contents. 
	“There’s Shenostar, of the Felnah,” Lynx said pointing. Shenostar had two younger brothers. “But that would make you twenty-six. More likely I think is Starriphon Theran, which would put you at eighteen, almost nineteen years old.” 
	Starr gazed at the scroll where Lynx pointed, tracing the names. 
	“So?” he prompted after a while, looking at her eagerly. 
	“Starriphon,” Starr said, dazed. “My mother was Phonene. My father died when I was very little – he was a sailor. After that we moved back to the Theran. My mother’s brother was chief at the time – Kissender. We stayed with him.” She had known all of this, vaguely, but seeing the names so neatly written added a layer of reality that was previously lacking. She looked accusingly at Lynx. 
	“I thought so,” Lynx said, satisfied with himself. “Starr’s not exactly a D’nani name, is it? It’s rather…presumptuous, don’t you think? Not very many people are named after celestial objects.”
	“You’re one to talk,” Starr snapped back at him, then shut her mouth hastily. “Anyway, what does it matter?” her head was pounding now, warning of an upcoming headache. “Or are you going to call me Starriphon now? It’s certainly a mouthful.”  
	“Only if you want me to,” Lynx said resentfully. “I thought you would have liked to know.” 
	Starr realized he had thought he was doing her a favor. Oh, Gods, she thought, what have I gotten myself in to?
	“I knew already,” she said stiffly. The knowledge had always been tucked away there, she had just lacked cause to remember it. Despite the pounding in her head, she wanted to make it clear that the Elyan had no hold over her she hadn’t allowed herself. “You could have just asked me.” 
	For a split second Lynx seemed almost angry. The expression dissipated before it could do more than flash across his features, instead leaving his face a mask of calm superiority. “I suppose it serves me right,” he said with a sigh. There was sarcasm behind his words, but Starr had no response. He looked her up and down as if seeing her for the first time. “I thought I ordered you new clothes.” 
	Starr swallowed, angrily. “I don’t need any of that, thank you,” she said coldly. She’d never admit how worthless the tailor’s treatment had made her feel. “I’m fine with what I’m wearing.” She remembered the disapproving stares of the people outside and felt ashamed. The new dresses could have almost been kind. 
	“You’ll have to wear something else eventually,” Lynx decided she was no longer worth his time. He turned back to his desk and smartly rolled up the family trees. “Okirun is coming for the next session of Parliament.” 
	“Okirun!” Starr exclaimed in surprise. “But he’s –”
	“Yes, and I want you there at dinner,” Lynx shuffled a stack of papers and began to write on the top one. “They’d hardly let you into the Lord’s Chamber, but I need you visible and seen. I told the tailors I want you in something eye-catching. Low cut, perhaps.” 
	Starr sunk dejectedly onto a stack of books. She had been clutching at straws, attempting to find kindness where there was none. “So I’m just a tool,” she said bitterly. “An object for you to use.” 
	“Pretty much, yes,” said Lynx coolly, without looking up. Starr stared; horrified, angry, and too dismayed to do or say anything else. Her emotions had been through a tornado and she could no longer settle on just one. She stared and stared and the study sunk into a stuffy silence. 
“Look,” Lynx sighed eventually when her hurt, accusatory glare had finally made him uncomfortable. “Don’t take it personally. It’s just politics. Would you rather go back to the D’nani? Or the Humans? It can be arranged, you know.” 
“You know I can’t,” Starr said angrily. “Oh, all right. But I hate you, I hope you know.” 
“So you’ve said,” said Lynx bitterly. “You’ll fit right in at court.”  

“You’ve proved more than that, Lord Adamail.”
	The D’nani bowed dourly. “Thank you, Your Majesty, but it is my unpleasant duty to correct you – I am no Lord.”
	“You should be, Adamail,” Lynx said flatly. “You know if I could, I would do it in an instant.” 
	“And your kindness is, as always, too great,” Adamail said, his eyes sliding over the D’nani girl standing next to him. “Your Majesty would do better than to offer what he cannot give…especially when dealing with D’nani refugees. Some of us are…undeserving.” His eyes lingered on Starr, his expression one of plain dislike. 
	Starr stiffened in shock.
	“Rudeness is uncalled for in my Palace, Adamail,” Lynx said mildly. “May I present as an representative of the Theran D’nani, Starriphon Theran? She is here under my invitation and will remain here until I choose otherwise.” 
	Adamail straightened, his face betraying nothing. “Your Majesty,” he said. “Forgive me, I meant no disrespect. I am merely uneasy with an extended Nog’Rog presence in Thamalia, especially when they all wish Your Majesty ill. And they harbor no great tolerance for Meh’Rog.”
	“Thank you, Adamail. Your concerns are noted. However, Starriphon is here at my personal urgings and as long as she remains here she will represent no danger. Now, the issue of the Guard. What was it you wished to discuss?”

	“You’re a coward,” she said, shaking. “You’re a coward and a bully and selfish!”
	Lynx raised an eyebrow. “Yes,” he said. “And you’re insecure, scheming, and attention-starved. Your point?”
	Starr could only glare at him. 



	Her progress was stopped short by a pair of armed guards. 
	"Sorry, my lady," said the rather gruff looking guard, folding his arms across his chest. "You're not allowed this way."
	Puzzled, but unfazed, Starr began to explore in the other direction. Here another set of guards blocked her path.
	"You're not allowed out of the west wing, my lady," said the guard. "You'll have to stay inside for the time being."
	Outraged, Starr headed back to Lynx's study and slammed open the door. Lynx was daintily sipping at a cup of tea. He jumped when she came in, spilling the tea on a stack of papers. He stuttered and swore and put the tea cup down hastily.
	"Look what you did!" he said, shaking the tea off before the leaves could soak it up.
	"What I did?!" Starr said, outraged. "Why aren't I allowed out of the palace?"
	"It's for your own good," Lynx stood up, still holding dripping sheets of paper. The tea had also spilled on his padded doublet, leaving a wet splotch across his front. He scowled. "You're not to go off wandering."
	"Wandering?! I'm not going to just sit quietly by while you trade my future away!"
	"Nonsense," said Lynx. "I'm not trading anything of the sort. And you have access to the grounds and the library, I made sure of that. Or you could just feel sorry for yourself in my study, since you seem to enjoy it so much."
	"What about the University?" Starr said angrily. 
	"What University?" Lynx frowned, confused.
	"The University! In Shicero, you said I could go to the University if I went with you!"
	"Ah," said Lynx. "That University." He folded his arms over the damp spot down his front and stared down his nose at her, glare icy. "I believe the terms of our agreement was slightly more specific. I said I would arrange for your enrollment if you behaved - specifically, accepting your roll as a vessel for the D'nani. However, you have been less than helpful."
	"What do you mean, less than helpful? I came with you!"
	"You did, yes, but under duress. And you refuse to stand as a representative of the D'nani."
	"I can't be a representative for the D'nani! I don't know anything about them!"
	Lynx shrugged. "If you want anything further from me, you'll have to lend me your support."
	Starr stared at him, not believing what she was hearing. "But you promised!"
	"I made a deal. And until you uphold your end, I am under no obligations to uphold mine. Now, if you want something to do, I will lend you a book. Or I'm sure one of the maids can find you an embroidery needle."


	"I hate him!" Starr hurtled a sculpted candlestick the blue-and-white wall, furious with the world. The candlestick shattered with a satisfying crash, porcelain pieces scattering across the carpeted floor. Elsea and Selea scampered frantically about the room with a dustbin, picking up the remains of knocked over nicknacks and teacups, and sweeping the porcelain shards into a tidy pile. Starr clapped her hands to her mouth, horrified with herself."Oh, Selea, I'm sorry!"
	"Elsea, my lady," the maid mumbled, carefully scooping up the remains of the broken candlestick. "Has my lady calmed down?"
	"No," Starr said, angrily, but she put down the object she had planned to throw next, an ornate gilded hand-mirror. "That was expensive, wasn't it?"
	"I wouldn't know, my lady," Elsea curtseyed, carefully not looking at her.
	Starr sighed and sunk down on a couch. 
	"He just makes me so - angry!" Starr balled her hands into fists. "There's times when he actually talks to me and then there's times when he forgets I exist! He doesn't remember who I am unless I actively figure into his little political schemes. He treats me like I'm something to be used, not a person! He can't do that, right?
	Selea shrugged. "He is the king, my lady. It's not a maid's place to comment on his behavior."
	"And why not? What happened to courtesy? I thought nobility were supposed to relish in propriety and politeness, not insult you to your face!"
	"My lady," Elsea came to stand besides her sister. "Permission to speak?"
	 Starr looked up at the maids. "You don't need to ask permission, Elsea. You two are the only ones who have shown me a thread of kindness since coming here. Go on," she added, when Elsea still hesitated, "what did you want to say?"
	Elsea and Selea glanced at each other. Elsea cleared her throat nervously. "My lady, please don't take offense, but is there a reason you expect such such favor from the King? Did something...happen between his majesty and yourself?"
	"What do you mean?" Starr frowned. "He practically abducted me from my home. He threatened both me and my friends unless I submitted to him."
	The maids exchanged another look. They seemed, if anything, more puzzled by this information.
	"Forgive us, my lady," Elsea said and she and her sister bowed their heads in unison, "I believe we are confused by the nature of my lady's relationship with his majesty."
	"I don't - oh," Starr's eyes widened as she understood the implication. A blush colored her cheeks and she found it very difficult to speak. "No, that's not - ! I didn't - ! I-I'm supposed to be his sister, that's all. He wants me to stand in place of the goddesses."
	"Then is he not treating you as such?" Selea spoke up. "His majesty and his sister did not always get along."
	"But he didn't parade her around like a convenient piece of artwork!" Starr insisted. "And I'm not her, I'm someone completely different! It's just chance that I happen to have her face."
	The maids still seemed confused. "Then what does my lady want? If you do not support his majesty, he cannot be expected to treat you with the same courtesy as those around him. He has already provided you with a great number of kindnesses. Take this room, for example, or your clothes. But You are a hostile, and a commoner." Elsea's eyes widened and she clapped her hands over her mouth. "Forgive me, my lady! I meant no offense."
	"I - none taken," Starr said, a little in shock. Her anger was due in part to her own confusion. What was she? A tool of the king or his long-dead sister? A human girl or a D'nani goddess? There were too many things jumbled up inside of her head and thinking about Lynx just made it worse. She hated that he wouldn't acknowledge her, that she was kept inside this room and forbidden from exploring the palace. He was miserable and petty and she was better than him. So why couldn't he see that? Why did he have to continually knock her down and watch, with that amused, distant expression, while she tried to scramble back up. She wouldn't let him win. She couldn't. She needed to be her own person, in control of her own life. She wouldn't be his puppet. 
	She stood up suddenly, and 

	“Hello, little lady,” the main laughed. His helm’s visor sat on the top of his head, revealing a close-cut beard and twinkling blue eyes. “What can I do for you? Or have you just come to watch the Knights practice without their shirts?” He gestured to the other side of the practice yard, were several young girls were giggling, clustered around the fence.
	“Knights?” Starr backed away. She had suddenly become extremely shy. “I’m sorry, I must be in the wrong place. I was looking for the Prince’s Own.”
	“No, you’re in the right place,” another man in practice gear came up behind her.  “Evans and his crew just like calling themselves Knights of Lyradis. Welcome to the Prince’s Own,” he lifted his visor and looked her over. “You’re D’nani. Are you al Rys’s new pet?”
	Starr blushed, but Evans came to her rescue. “More like new victim, knowing our Prince. What’s your name?”
	“Starr,” Starr managed. “Starriphon Theran.”
	Evans stuck out his hand. “Just call me Evans,” he said, shaking Starr’s hand with the force of a cheerful earthquake. “I’m one of two Lieutenants under His Majesty.” 
	“His first name’s Tedither,” said the other man informed her. “I’m Kelivar Shehn,” he said slyly, sticking out his hand as well. His brown eyes were sharp and intelligent. “Of the Meh’Rog D’nani.”
	“You’re D’nani?” Starr said excitedly. “You’re the first D’nani I’ve met since coming here.”
	“Oh really?” Evans laughed. “Where were you before? The moon?”
	Starr shook her head. “I’ve been living with humans since I was eight. I haven’t been back to Kolouric since then.”
	“A refugee, then,” Kelivar said knowingly. “The D’nani can be...set in their ways.”
	“No matter, everyone is welcome in Thamalia,” Evans slapped her on the back, almost knocking her flat on her face. “Did al Rys send you out to us?”
	“I came by myself. I was hoping you could teach me. I - I want to be less useless.” 
	“A worthy goal,” Kelivar said seriously. Evans took a step back, stroking his chin thoughtfully. 
	“Well, you’re a bit small,” he said. “What did you want to learn? Weapon play? Archery? WRESTLING?!”
	“No, no wrestling,” Starr backed away quickly. “Honestly, I hadn’t thought that far ahead. I just wanted something to do.”
	“Well, you’re too small for a broadsword and fencing is more posh than actually useful,” Evans ran a hand over his stubble. “Daggers perhaps? Or maybe a flail?” 
	“Teach her quarterstaves,” Kelivar suggested. “and then move her up to pike forms. The D’nani have a whole bunch of traditional polearm techniques.” 
	“Excellent idea,” Evans said, nodding. “Who’s our best with staves?”
	“Krestal probably,” Kelivar glanced out over the field. “But Abidale’s on duty if you want to ask her. She’s quite good with maces too, but don’t tell Davelli you’re diverting the Own from training. Abidale’s one of his.” 
	“Davelli can soak himself,” Evans said jovially. “Besides, this is a request from the king. Isn’t that right, Miss Theran?” He winked at her. 
	Starr took the hint and nodded vigorously.
	“Good,” said Evans. He cupped his hands around his mouth and yelled out to the practice field. “Abidale! Come here a minute, will you?”
	One of the sparring couples paused, a svelte figure disengaging and bowing to her partner. She trotted over to where they stood, mousey curls escaping from under her helmet. 
	“You wished to see me, sir?”
	“Thanks, Abidale,” Evans grinned. He placed an arm around Starr’s shoulders. “This little lady is looking to train with us, and Kelivar and I think you’re the perfect soldier to teach her quarterstaves. But don’t go easy on her. Little lady wants to learn!”
	Abidale threw a hand up to her forehead in a sharp salute. “Pleasure, sir,” she said. “She needs training gear.”
	“Right, nearly forgot,” Evans nodded. “Take her down to the quartermaster before you start. Now, Miss Theran, if you’re serious, I’ll expect you to be on this field at least three times a week. I want you to keep Abidale sharp.”
	Kelivar snickered behind a hand and Abidale grinned. 
	“Yes, sir!” Starr said, eyes wide. She felt like she was eight again, entering school for the first time. 
	“Well then, dismissed,” Evans winked at her again. “Hop to it, dears.” 
	Smiling, Abidale lead her away from the training ground and down the hill to the barracks of the Guard. 
	“Theran, was it?” Abidale asked. She had taken off her helmet, revealing frizzy curls piled on top of a heart-shaped face. 
	“Just Starr, ma’am,” said Starr seriously. “Theran’s my tribe.”
	“Just Abidale, not ma’am,” Abidale laughed. “So you’re D’nani. Explains why Kelivar took an interest in you. You’re supposed to be al Rys’s new kept woman, aren’t you?”
	Starr blushed furiously, anger rising. “No!” she protested emphatically. “It’s not like that at all! I don’t even like him!” 
	Abidale stopped on the the curvy path and patted Starr on the arm. “I know,” she said kindly. “I was just teasing. Don’t worry so much! Al Rys only sleeps with women he doesn’t respect and never gives them favor. You wouldn’t be where you are now if you had. And I’ve never known him to take an interest in cross-racial breeding.” She grinned viciously. “Don’t let it get to you. When you’re sore down to your bones from weapons training, the things people say about you will stop seeming so important.”
	Starr shook her head and continued down the path. She was in shock, her half conceived idea developed into a full commitment. She was still trying to digest this new event. What had she gotten herself into? Apparently she was now a fringe member of the Prince’s Own.
	Abidale jogged up besides her. “Hey, don’t be like that,” she said. “If you want, you can talk to me about it. Get to know each other a little bit. Obviously something is bothering you, or else you wouldn’t be here.”
	“Nothing is bothering me,” Starr said stiffly.
	“Of course there is. Everyone in the Own or the Guard is here because something was bothering them. Look at Evans - he ran away from home when he was fifteen over a dispute with his father. Kelivar is just mysterious, but some of the Own say he killed a man in the Guard and al Rys recruited him for his own protection.”
	“What about you?” Starr asked curiously.
	“Me? I have five older brothers,” Abidale grinned. “My father’s a general, but all my brothers became either merchants or bankers. One’s even a mage. I wanted to join the army since I was little, so I enrolled in the military academy. I trained as hard as I could until someone noticed. In my case, it was Davelli and he recommended me to the Prince. Well, King now, I suppose.” 
	“You knew him when he was Prince?” 
	“Almost everyone in the Own did. Al Rys was born Prince Consort and the Own has been with him his entire life. We were recruited as kids - top of our class at academy - and we all trained together. I joined the Own when I was fourteen and trained with al Rys for seven years before he became king.” Her expression turned solemn. “Admittedly, we haven’t seen much of him these past two years. Parliament doesn’t like him having much influence over any aspect of the army, in case he can use us against them. But we’re still his Own.”
	“And you’re loyal to him?” 
	“Of course,” Abidale smiled a bit at Starr’s confusion. “He may be self-absorbed and a bit overly dramatic, but he’s a good person. And it’s difficult to take anyone seriously after you’ve knocked them on the arse a few times in training. You have to understand, we all grew up together. We all fight together. You can’t help but trust one-another. If anyone in this group wasn’t loyal to everyone else, the group wouldn’t work. Al Rys sticks up for us and we stick up for him. We’re his Own. So what’s bothering you?”
	“He is,” Starr admitted. “He took me away from my home, brought me to Thamalia

	“Daughter, son, whatever! Do you know the amount of money that went into my education?”
	Starr took a step back, confused. “Wha?” she managed inelegantly. 
	“The money required to raise a royal child! I’m worth a about the same as a Duxdom,” he laughed, bitterly. “They’re not about to let someone like me just leave. The Lords and the taxpayers they represent own me; they paid for everything I am. For my clothes, my schooling, my hobbies, my horses. I may be rich, but none of it is my own. I’m a bloody commodity.
	“They may as well use a royal child, no matter what sex it is. It’s a waste otherwise. Only way I figure,” Lynx slouched, his sentences becoming more and more disjointed, sinking finally into angry mumbling. 

	He glanced up at her sharply. “Don’t repeat any of this,” he said warningly. “Everything you hear here is private, understand?”
	“As if,” Starr snorted. “Who am I going to repeat it to? I don’t understand half of the things you say anyway.”
	“No one’s approached you?” Lynx said suspiciously. “No offers of gold or jewels in exchange fro information?” 
	“In case you hadn’t noticed, no one here talks to me,” Starr retorted. “Not even the servants. So no, no offers of jewels.” 
	Lynx leaned back thoughtfully. “Really? Why don’t they talk to you, I wonder?”
	“Probably because I look like your sister and am common as trash at the same time,” she snapped. “And I don’t even think you’re worth gossiping about -- you tell your servants everything already.” 
	“Yes, but they’re loyal to me,” Lynx said dismissively. “Now, the question is, where do your loyalties lie?” 
	“To myself,” Starr said flatly. “No one else has seen fit to recruit me.” 
	Lynx gave her one of his impassive looks. 
	“All I want to know,” he said meaningfully, “is whether or not you’ll betray me. Can I trust you?”
	Starr looked him straight in the eye and found herself answering honestly.	
	“Yes,” she said. “You can trust me.” There was, after all, no one else to talk to. 
	Lynx’s face relaxed. “Good,” he nodded, looking genuinely pleased. Starr realized with a slight shock that he would have known if she was lying. She gulped, swallowing a mouthful of air. What made him a dangerous man made him an even more dangerous king. Starr was glad of her answer; as much as she wanted a friend, she wanted even more to keep him from being an enemy.

	He turned to the footman nearest to him. “Would you bring D’li in, please?”
	D’li entered a few moments later, casting his customary disapproving glance over the mess of Lynx’s desk. He bowed. “You wished to see me, Your Majesty?” 
	“She says no one talks to her, D’li,” Lynx said abruptly.  “Is that true?” 
	“The D’nani girl? I’m sure Your Majesty could discover that for himself, if he so pleased.” 
	“She thinks it’s true,” Lynx tapped his fingers thoughtfully on the desk, “but I want your opinion,” Lynx looked at the steward evenly. He was used to D’li’s insistence on formalities, but Lynx sill felt titles and politeness were barriers to actual information. At the moment, he wasn’t prepared to be very patient. 
	D’li considered his response. “I do believe she has no friends,” D’li said  eventually. “She’s spent all her time either here or in her rooms.” 
	This was news to Lynx. “Really?” he said. “And has no one come to visit her there?” 
	“Only the servants, Your Majesty. They could provide far better intelligence than myself.”
	“Don’t expect me to believe that, D’li. You know more of what goes on around here than anyone.”

	D’li blinked several times, although he looked pleased. “She doesn’t do anything, Your Majesty, but stare out the window or read. Several times she’s thrown things at the wall. Luckily, everything breakable was removed prior to her arrival. At your request, as I understand it.” 
	Lynx knew Starr better than he cared to admit. “What do the servants think of her?” 
	“They say she tries to talk to them,” D’li shifted uncomfortably. “But they don’t think it’s right to respond. They are…disdainful of her position. They feel common people should work for their respect and elevation, not be suddenly curried into Your Majesty’s favor.” 
	Lynx stared at him blankly. 
	“They are jealous, Your Majesty,” D’li said gently. 
	Lynx snorted and shook his head in disbelief. “And none of the Dux have tried to contact her? I thought for sure they would. Especially as she spends most of her time in here.” 
	“The Dux are of the opinion that she is too common to bother with,” D’li glanced at the floor. “They believe you to be sleeping with her.” 
	“But she looks like my sister,” Lynx said, aghast. He had never understood the fallacies court gossip would come up with. “Why would I do something like that?” 
	“True, Your Majesty,” said D’li implacably. “But I believe her true importance has yet to be revealed to the Dux. None of them have seen her yet, and her resemblance to Queen Elania is not widely known,” his mouth twitched in a smile. “They’ve had to change out their spies since the Queen’s death…as you’ve proved so efficient with spotting them.” 
	Lynx took a careful breath. “Then Okirun has let to learn of her,” he said pensively. 
	“Okirun thinks her only to be a mistress. The consensus is that you’ve returned to your own ways and believe that a D’nani mistress will garner favor with the Nog’Rog and their ilk.” 
	Lynx snorted again, but turned it into a cough at D’li’s frown.
	“Okirun can’t have known about her location then,” he mused. “But Artensia’s presence in Shicero is still highly suspicious.” 
	“It is consistent with his recent behavior, Your Majesty. Artensia has been recruiting magic users from the mainland for the past six months.” 
	“Recruiting?” Lynx said sharply. “Why did I not know about this?”
	“This information has been filed and submitted to you as per protocol, Your Majesty. It is not my fault if you choose not to read it,” D’li’s eyes flicked at the disorderly stack of papers sitting on the desk. 
	 “That’s another thing in Okirun’s arsenal,” Lynx groaned. “Okirun continues to build an army while the Dux have left me with no control over ours. It looks like he’s started a navy too, under the guise of protecting Artensian trade from pirates. And Landon’s simply been pushing approval through the Lord’s Chamber, never mind me at all.” 
	“Perhaps if you were a little more on top of things, Your Majesty, these developments could have been prevented?” 
	Lynx ignored D’li. “Magic users…” he mumbled to himself. “Parliament’s always been adamant against militarizing magic and the army refuses to classify them as anything but civilians. D’li, who do I want to talk to about this?” 
	“The Royal Mages,” D’li replied promptly. “They reside at the University.”
	Lynx squinted at him. “We have Royal Mages? Why does nobody tell me these things?” 
	“We indeed have Royal Mages, Your Majesty; if you remember, they trained your sister.” 
	“Oh,” said Lynx. “OH. Those Royal Mages. Yes. Arrange a meeting if you will, D’li. But not in the palace, I want it more private. Where do their loyalties lie, at the moment?” 
	“Unclear, Your Majesty. They are traditionally aligned with Queens of Lyradis, but the universities and magic studies are often passed up for funding in favor of your military. But if I were to hazard a guess, I would say they are still loyal to the throne, Your Majesty. At least, they are even less fond of Parliamentary procedure than they are of a male ruler.”
	“That’s good news, I suppose,” Lynx frowned. “But you’ll have to schedule them after Parliament is called to session, if you please. I don’t need more accusations of ignoring the system.” 
“After your little jaunt in Shicero, I don’t think flaunting your disregard for law and order would be recommendable.” 
“Hey, at least I showed up,” said Lynx reproachfully. “Eventually.” 

“Our Lord Kan Makael is not the most proper of people,” Landon said with deliberate mystery. Starr could think of any multitude of criticisms, but Lynx's sense of propriety didn’t make the list.  

Hayber smiled. “Indeed,” he said, “but the seats of the Racial Consuls have been empty for nearly a decade. I’ve taken it upon myself to represent the interest of the Elves. The Humans are so well represented these days it’s really quite impressive, and the Azor have entrenched themselves so firmly in our fiscal policy that it would be folly to ignore them…not that they’ve ever really cared what happens on the mainland. No, only your people, little lady, are without a voice.”
	“Thank you, Dux Hayber,” Lynx said with great politeness and no hint of his usual sarcasm. His expression bordered disturbingly on one of respect. “But I feel you may have forgotten the purpose of the monarchs. It is our duty to consider equally the welfare of all of Lyradis’s people. Rest assured that every person will have a voice, be they elvan or D’nani.” 
	“So we may wish, Your Majesty,” Hayber raised an eyebrow, “but who will speak for equality during your absences? You must admit they are becoming more…frequent. Whether or not it is by your own design or by the administrations of those around you, I do not think nonappearance in Parliament advisable, especially at these trying times. The people need a leader, Your Majesty, and like it or not, the Nobles do too. I fear Dux Landon may soon take it upon himself to fill your place…” Hayber shook his head. “Landon is a good man, but such an appointment would not be good for many of those who have lost their voice.” He placed a hand on Lynx’s shoulder. “I worry about you,” he said frankly and his fondness for Lynx shown earnestly through his sculpted exterior. 

	“Lesser sons and daughters,” Lynx said dismissively. “Female attendants are pretty much assured the favor of the Queen and better marriages than those that would be arranged by their fathers. Most husbands want a woman who has the ear of the Queen and the women get higher social prospects,” Lynx laughed at Starr’s disapproving stare. “Jjust because we have a matriarchy,” he said, “doesn’t mean the men have to like it. Many people are still stuck in the gender rolls of before the Holy Wars. It’s too deep set, and the primarily male Parliament doesn’t worry itself with this sort of thing. The Queens started fairly quickly trying to help their common gender out, or at least help them to get an equal footing.” 
	Starr shook her head. “Then why did the Parliament even let the Queens return after the first Kan Makael? They don’t appear to like women very much.” 
	“They probably forgot just how strong female rulers could be,” Lynx said thoughtfully, “especially those backed by the power of the Goddesses. Parliament only let me on the throne because they were sick of powerful Queens. They haven’t completely had their way since the first Kan Makael – they thought I’d either side with them or else be easy to control. After all, I have no real claim to the throne other than the one they’ve given me. Sure, I may have Eltanin’s power, but I can’t actually use it. The only reason I’m hanging on is because there’s no female heirs and I’m the only immediate member of the royal family.” He paused, amused. “I think if I prove much more contrary, they’ll replace me with one of my cousins.” 
	“What?” Starr shivered, unsure she liked this thread of conversation. “What will happen to you?”
	“They’ll exile me,” Lynx said flatly, “if I’m very, very lucky. Landon may always decide not to install a new king or queen - he may just do away with the monarchy all together. In that case…I’ll be killed as an example and all my remaining relatives stripped of their power. Not that they had much to begin with, but still. It’s the only way to make sure there’s no one left to rally support and reclaim the throne.” 
	“That’s awful!” Starr cried. “Landon would be king!”
	“Hardly. Landon already controls Parliament, he doesn’t need to create a human monarchy. No, he’ll try to keep the country an aristocracy as long as possible. Pre-established forms of government are always more stable.” 

Lynx tugged unhappily at the frilly thing around his neck. He would find some way to lose it by the end of the evening, but the interim had his throat feeling stiff and constricted. The more restless the Noble Lords became, the more he hated the idea of something encircling his neck. He swallowed, cloth band tightening uncomfortably, and sighed. There was, as always, the slim possibility that he would survive this, that everything for once would be all right…
	Lynx grinned. He had never been much of an optimist. Just because his life was going to hell didn’t mean he couldn’t give the world a little taste of hell back. That was next on his list, just as soon as he fixed everything he had already broken…. He sighed. 

	The man was pale, so pale that his skin shown with an almost blue light. White-blonde hair was tied into a loose bun, letting a few fair strands fall down the back of his neck and over his eyes. She watched him, hypnotized by his strange appearance. He wore light purple silks that seemed to shimmer as he moved, accenting his paleness with mother-of-pearl shadows on the exposed skin. His almost nonexistent lips spread into a thin smile and he paused, his eyes sweeping the room. She was still staring at him when his hard, grey eyes met hers and held them for a split second. They were intelligent and well educated and appeared in dark contrast against his skin. He turned away and advanced towards the high chair, but not before Starr thought his eyes had held a flash of recognition. 
	Starr glanced towards Lynx, disconcerted, searching for some sort of solidarity. Lynx was slouched, his head in one hand, and trying very hard to pretend the pale man didn’t exist. 
	“Your Majesty,” the man smiled, widely, his gums bright red against the pale flesh. “Since when does Lyradis not rise to greet Artensia?”
	The mumbling at the table died away in little hisses, like steam from a fire. Lynx looked up, unable to ignore the direct address. “Come now, Okirun,” he said pleasantly. “We’ve known each other too long to be taken in by simple formalities.” 
	“Formalities or not, Lynx,” Okirun’s eyes sparkled with something that Starr was sure wasn’t kindness, “I’m sure you wouldn’t want to insult anyone. Especially at this juncture.”
	Lynx regarded him coldly, then surprised Starr by standing and bowing stiffly. He sat back down quickly, with a thud as the chair shifted. 
	Okirun smiled dourly, but Lynx remained impassive. “Sit, Okirun,” Lynx said, and motioned lazily to the large empty chair. 
	“Your Majesty is too kind,” he bowed and swept out one arm of his flowing purple robe. Several of the Dux watched him intently. Others ignored him decidedly. 

	“There’s no way the barrier can be completely void magic,” Starr twisted the ribbon around her fingers. “Void can’t stand by itself. It needs a framework to sustain it, usually one of positive elemental magic. I can only think of one way to uphold a void working this colossal. Basically, they’ve created a giant close-looped spell with its own power source. If you’re clever about it, you can route positive power through a void web or drape and bring it back to the beginning, creating a self-sufficient spell. It’s simple. And elegant, as it requires almost no maintenance.”
	Lynx looked disappointed. “But that doesn’t tell us anything about destroying it,” he leaned back and leafed distractedly through the stacks of paper. 
	Starr swallowed. “But it does, rather. If we continue throwing things at it, it will gradually increase the amount of positive energy flowing through the system. In order to preserve the spell, the amount of void magic would need to be increased too, beyond that of the initial casting. With the stuff you’ve already been tossing at it, there’s probably someone on hand to adjust the void magic and keep the spell in balance. 
	“I think...” Starr continued nervously. Lynx was looking at her intently. “If it were possible for us to increase the positive power circulating in the spell instantaneously, then it would beyond the capacity of the barrier to compensate. The circle would be destroyed and the spell would short itself out, in a manner of seconds, probably.”
	 “That’s brilliant,” Lynx said. “But there has to be a catch. Okirun wouldn’t create something so easily circumvented.”
	Starr looked worried. “The problem is that this thing was created with an immense amount of power – void power. Okirun’s practically told us he’s using the Human vessel to propel this thing. You'd need the full force of the Elvan vessel to generate enough positive magic to destroy the barrier – which you don’t have. Elania isn’t here.”
	“What about you? You have access to Reesimah’s power.” 
	Starr forced herself to turn away. It was no wonder he was a prince, she thought. His blue eyes just made you want to help him, to please him. She shook her head.
	“Fire is more negative than positive. I won't be much help either. I can reroute the void path, maybe, but you’d need the positive pull of water and mind to break the circle. You’ll need the power of three Goddesses to pull this off.” 
	A slow smile spread its way over Lynx’s face. 
	“I think,” he said, “it’s time to find the last girl.”

Part 2 - Sancriest
	
	“Here,” said a voice to her left, “have a donut.” 
	She turned and saw Lynx, thrusting a donut at her, clinging tightly to its paper wrapper. His face was kind, a half smile extending across his cheeks. He didn’t have a cloak and instead wore a rosy jacket lined with fur. A striped scarf wrapped itself lazily around his neck and shoulders. He extended the donut, hands gloved against the cold. Starr looked at his blue eyes. 
	“They said you were in a meeting,” she said reproachfully. 
	Lynx laughed. “They always say that when they can’t find me,” he said. He seemed abnormally cheerful. “Here,” he offered the donut again. “Take it. It’s good.” 
	Starr carefully took the paper wrapper from him, clutching it in her mittens. She stared at it, snowflakes sprinkling like a layer of powdered sugar before melting on its warm dough. Cautiously, she took a bite. It was good.
	Lynx retrieved a steaming paper cup from where he had set it on the wall next to them and sipped at it thoughtfully. 
	“So, he said after a while. “Why aren’t you in the palace?” 
	Starr swallowed her mouthful of pastry. “I was bored,” she said defensively. “There’s not much for me to do there. The servants are still scared of me and the Nobles have gone from ignoring me to mocking me behind my back. I don’t know what happened, but whatever it was, I blame you,” she glared at Lynx, quietly curious to see his reaction. 
	Lynx smiled. “If you were lonely,” he said reasonably, ”you could always come talk to me.” 
	“Says the man who’s currently ‘in a meeting’,” Starr said pointedly. 
	He laughed, but examined her musingly, blue eyes bright against the gray, snowy world. Starr bit into the donut again, attempting to hide her blush behind it. She swallowed and found she was shivering. 
	Lynx had noticed too. “Are you cold?” He watched, concerned, as Starr pulled her cloak about her. It really was a rather thin wool, stylishly cut, but not even fur-lined for warmth. Lynx shook his head. 
	“Let’s go inside,” he said, “and get you something warm to drink.” He started toward the nearest café, but Starr stopped him. 
	“No, really,” she said quickly, “I’m just used to warmer winters. That’s all. And don’t want to interrupt you.” 
	Lynx raised an eyebrow. “Your teeth are chattering,” he said matter-of-factly. “And I’m already skiving work. Stop being obstinate – it’s my treat. Or the treat of the taxpayer, at least,” he grinned evilly, grabbed her wrist, and strode cheerfully indoors. 
	Starr stared at him in surprise. He was, after all, in a ridiculously good mood, and was behaving with almost good nature. He’d even paid attention to her general well being. She wondered numbly what had made him so happy. 

	“Thanks Gen,” Lynx took the cup gratefully and sipped at the tea, coughing as the steam filled up his nose. The black haired serving boy stepped backwards and bowed, then hurried from the room. Starr watched the servant as he left and he winked at her as he closed the door behind him. 
	“Who was that?” Starr said, unimpressed by the wink.
	Lynx sipped his tea. “Gen Edes. He worked in the kitchens for six months. Ran away from a family in lower Methids.”
	“Do you know the names of all the serving staff?” Starr said incredulously. 
	Lynx considered. “Probably,” he said. “Is there something wrong with that? They’re people just like you and me.”
	Starr struggled for the right words. “But....your attendants. You act like they’re hardly there.”
	Lynx saw her point. “Oh,” he said. 
	“Are they not people?”
	“Obviously not,” Lynx said drolly. “Attendants are almost always political appointments. Lesser sons and nephews of Noble Lords. One of them is even Landon’s younger brother,” he paused, as if trying to remember which one. “Anyway,” he continued quickly as Starr opened her mouth, “they are definitely not people.” 
	He turned with a sense of finality back to his desk and the tea sitting there. 


	“Will it be okay to leave? What about Okirun?”
	“It’s winter,” Lynx sipped his tea. “Okirun won’t risk crossing the straight this late in the season. He’ll wait till the weather breaks to send troops over.”
	“Then we’ll be traveling...in the snow?” Starr’s voice had gone up several octaves. 
	Lynx shook his head, completely oblivious to Starr’s distress. “No snow,” he said. “We’ll be traveling along the coast. The snow storms only hit east of the mountains. The west coast is safe.” 

“Your Majesty!” D’li ran after them panting. “You’re supposed to speak to Magician Nicolai today! You’re already late!” 
“Whom now with the what now?” said Lynx, his mind somewhere else. 
“The Royal Mages!” D’li yelled, flustered. “I arranged for you to speak to them in at the University! Landon’s sure to hear about it if you don’t show.” 
Lynx swore. “No choice then. We need their help,” he sighed and turned to Starr. “Come with me?”
“Why me?” Starr said crossly. 
“I didn’t have time to prepare,” Lynx said vaguely. “You can translate all the magical mumbo jumbo for me.” 
“Just…hurry,” D’li said faintly. Lynx nodded and pulled Starr after him with one hand. He helped Starr onto Esroh and mounted after her, then paused. 
“Bye D’li,” he smiled. “Try to keep everything under control while I’m gone.” 
“I do a better job of it than you do,” D’li retorted. Lynx grinned and they rode out of the courtyard. 

 	“And as for me, Your Majesty,” Nicolai said with a flourish and a bow, “I specialize in internally-maintained, open-loop magnifications.”
“I’m sorry, I didn’t catch that. I think you may have sneezed.” 
Starr elbowed Lynx. “He means he can take other people’s magic and make it stronger,” she said, impressed, and turned back to Nicolai. “What’s your rank?”
“A First Magician, my Lady. The Avard board did not find it appropriate to appoint me an Enchanter, as an invocation of mine went astray during testing, but still, Your Majesty,” Nicolai turned to Lynx graciously, “I am not complaining.”
“I’m sure you’re not,” Lynx eyed the Magician suspiciously. He was distrustful of magic users in general. 

“You’re much nicer to me when we’re on our own,” Starr burst out. 
“What?” Lynx turned to her, curiously. 
“Like this,” Starr gestured around vaguely. “You’re much nicer out here or traveling. In Thamalia, you’re just mean.” 
Lynx frowned at this, genuinely concerned. “I don’t mean to be,” he said worriedly. “How am I nicer?” 
“You pay attention to me,” Starr managed eventually. 
“Starr,” Lynx looked at her seriously, “we are in the middle of nowhere, all alone. You are the only person here to pay attention to. I have five million people to take care of in Thamalia. I can’t pay attention to everyone all at once.”
“I know that!” Starr snapped then swallowed. “That’s not what I meant.” 
	He smiled patronizingly at her. “Then what did you mean?” 
“I don’t know,” she kicked at the ground. “Forget it.” She thought of the stars and the blanket and couldn’t think of anything else more to say. Lynx was looking almost thoughtful. 

	“What are you doing?” Starr said curiously, clutching the blanket to her. She discovered she was shy of him this close, when he was awake and alert and not caught up in things she didn’t understand. She had thought for sure he would be dead to the world and snoring, but didn’t think it polite to bring this up. 
	Lynx smiled widely at her, an expression she met with vague horror. He was in an amazingly good mood for so late into the evening, when she was slow and disoriented for lack of sleep. “I like looking at the stars,” he said gently.
	Starr glanced up at the million points of light dancing in the sky, white and yellow against the black of midnight. “For heavens why?” she asked rather desperately. “I thought you liked sleep.”
	Lynx laughed. “It makes me feel small, insignificant, almost. It puts things in perspective.”
	“And you like that?” Starr shivered involuntarily, although not from the chill. The charcoal sky was beautiful, yes, but its emptiness terrified her, like the thought of falling into nothingness. 
	Lynx was grinning. “I’m kidding,” he said. “Although it is part of it. It’s reassuring in some ways to know my troubles aren’t all that bad. But, no, the sky tells stories,” he glanced at her and looked puzzled, as if he had forgotten why she was there. “Sit down,” he said. “I can show you if you want.” 
	“I brought you a blanket,” Starr held it out helpfully. “I thought you might be cold.”
	Lynx took it politely. “Are you going to sit down?”
	Starr plunked down quickly, then crawled forward on her knees, straining to see up through the darkened foliage. 
	“The sky is the one constant thing in the universe,” Lynx began. “There are may other worlds – planets – out there, but they all share the same sky. The position of the stars change relative to each world, but you can always see the same things if you know where to look.
	“The stars, though, are arranged to tell stories, and every world has its own story to be told. This sky is our story. 
	“That constellation right there,” he pointed almost directly straight up, “is Eltanin’s necklace, made by the Great God and hung in the sky as a gift to the Elvan Goddess. Some see it as a sign of the Elvan superiority and right to rule. Ships often navigate by that bright star – that one right there – called the Queen’s Jewel. To the west, over there,” Lynx moved his finger and Starr’s eyes traced its path, “is the D’nani warrior Kavendar, leader of the D’nani in the Holy Wars. The Great God was so ashamed by the slaughter of the D’nani that he hung Kavendar’s likeness in the sky for eons to come, or so the story goes.”
	“That’s strange,” Starr said mildly. “Would that have made him happy?”
	“It made him immortal. In some ways, that’s the only immortality we can hope for; to have our memory preserved in the minds and the stories of the people. As long as the story is told, some part of us is still alive.” 
	Starr shifted and pulled at the edge of the blanket. It was cold. “Is that why you like them then? You want immortality?”
	Lynx shook his head vigorously. “No, not at all. True immortality would be a curse, don’t you think? Living, only to see all your loved ones die around you? I’ve already gone through that once," he shuddered and fiddled absently with the hem of the blanket before continuing. “But in some ways,” he said slowly, “I’ll be remembered just like Kavendar and the others in the sky. As long as Lyradis exists, someone will remember the Queens and Kings and I’ll be in with them, even if it’s just as a footnote in a history book. Even so, I’d rather be remembered for some good I did, rather than just how I was born.”  
	 “I don’t need to be famous,” she said, looking at the stars. “I'd rather have friends and family, you know? Real people, people who know me. People who care. People who’ll remember me and have it mean something.” 
	“You ask for too much,” Lynx's gaze turned thoughtfully upwards. They sat together in silence in the night and watched the millions and millions of stars dancing heartlessly in the night sky. 
	
	Starr returned to bed, and her shivering beneath the blankets had nothing to do with the cold night air. She felt an intruder in something private and cursed herself silently for being such a fool. 

	The city was deserted. Homes had been ransacked and burned, debris clogging the canals. 
	Starr sunk to the ground. “What...happened?”
	“I...don’t know.” Lynx stared down the alleyway warily. “It’s...something isn’t right.”
	“Do you think...Okirun did this?” Starr looked up at Lynx. 
	Lynx frowned and ignored her. He continued staring straight ahead. 
	“Lynx?” 
	“Shh,” Lynx shushed her, holding out a hand. “Do you hear that?”
	Starr listened. The cold sea wind whistled between the buildings, gently rustling through reams of paper discarded in the plaza. 
	“It’s quiet,” Starr said. “Where are all the people?”
	Lynx nodded. “I think I know. We have to get to the harbor.” He glanced down, surprised to find her on the ground. “Can you stand?”
	“Yes, I’m fine,” Starr got to her feet. “Lead the way.” 

“It will be a haven, a home for all Azore.”
“A home?” Starr shivered slightly in the ocean breeze. 
Odoro smiled. “A home, for our people. We’ve never had one, you know. Zosma felt it wasn’t necessary.  But these are times when it is good for a people to be together. The Elyan will not be in power forever and the Humans are becoming…greedy.” He shot a glance at Lynx, who only shrugged. 
	“As long as you continue piloting their merchant ships I don’t think the Humans will care a sliver what you and your people do,” Lynx yawned. 
Odoro looked at him slyly. “Oh, I think they will. At least they will when they find out their tax laws do not cover land under the ocean water.”
Lynx grinned. “It’s not my fault the Dux Landon doesn’t read all the bills passed through Parliament. He’d find a couple other annoying loopholes if he just took time to look.”
“It is good,” Odoro said, “that you side with us. I’d hate to think that my King does not look out for me.” Odoro slapped Lynx on the back, failing to notice the dark look now making its home on Lynx’s face. Lynx shook his head slightly. 
“I’m looking for someone, Odoro,” Lynx said, changing topic. “An Azore. I knew you could help me find her.”
“I know many Azore and if I do not know who you seek, I can at least send you to someone who does.”
Lynx grabbed Starr’s wrist and pulled her forward slightly. “She looks like Starr,” he said firmly. The leather of his gloves creaked as he tightened his grip. “Do you know a girl or a woman who looks like her?”
A thin smile spread across Odoro’s face. “Yes,” he said. “Her. I know her. We all know her. We knew someone would come looking for her. We’ve kept her safe.” 
Starr glanced up at Lynx. His face was carefully blank except for one eyebrow raised in calculating surprise. He released Starr’s wrist.
“I see.” Lynx’s voice had gone cool and haughty, the way he sounded when he wanted to give the impression of being in control. Starr scowled at him slightly and rubbed her wrist. 

“Get away!” Starr screamed. “Lynx, they’re after you!”
Lynx’s eyes widened as the soldiers encircled him. He held his sword out, keeping them at bay. “RUN!” he cried. “Go now!”
Starr turned and bolted. She ran away from the men in glinting mail, away the dim glow of Aracus burning. She coughed, the smell of smoke clinging to her, only vaguely aware of tall grass whipping at her shins. 
“Keep running!” Lynx yelled somewhere behind her. “Go towards the mountains!” 
	
	Lynx groaned and tried to remember where his edges were. The dream lingered on the inside of his eyelids, confused and colorful against his sudden self awareness. He grasped thinly at the few sensations he could discern, desperately trying to find what part of him was real. 
	The floor was hard. That was a good place to start. It was also quite lumpy and poked him in some very impolite places. The location, however, of said floor and was a complete and utter mystery. How very puzzling. He pondered on how to resolve this predicament and happened upon an intriguing solution. He opened his eyes. 
	And shut them immediately against a painful flickering light. 
	“Oh, Gods,” he moaned in agony. 
	“Hello yourself,” said a voice cheerfully from somewhere above him. “I thought you’d never wake up.” 
	Lynx hazarded opening one eye again, this time bracing himself for the change in brightness. Even so, he still winced. He managed to focus on something near his head. A face was grinning down at him. 
	“Who are you?” Lynx frowned, the pain of the light making him nauseated. “And where have I seen you before?”
	“I don’t think we’ve met,” the face said curiously. “Feeling better?” 
	In reply, Lynx closed his eyes, rolled over on his hands and knees, and vomited.
	Finished, he coughed and spat out the taste of bile, wiping his mouth on his sleeve.  “It feels like I’ve been run over by the entire Lyradi army,” he gripped his head against a sudden pounding headache. 
	“I’m not surprised,” the person behind him said. “You were forcefully brought out of a magical imbalance. You’re bound to have some physical side effects.” 
	Lynx managed to lift up his head, blearily focusing on the other figure. A young man - no, a boy - sat there, arms and legs crossed, mouth twitched in a lopsided smile. 
	“I do know you,” Lynx said. “You were the mountain person in the inn. I knew I’d seen you before.”
	A slow grin spread over the boy’s face. “So it is!” he said wondrously. He bounced slightly as he spoke, as if he had trouble sitting still. “I suppose I should have remembered, but one rude Elyan is just like every other. And we've never been introduced, so allow me,” he smiled at Lynx’s unhappy expression. “My name is Jiao. You’re in a small cave off the north western coast. You’ve been unconscious for less than a day and Starr went to get food.” 
	Lynx had completely forgotten about the D’nani girl. “Starr?” he said with some surprise, and tried to remember the events leading up to his unconsciousness. He failed. “What happened?” he asked. He did not trust this new person at all. 
	“You were attacked,” said Jiao. He stopped bouncing and leaned forward, palms on the dirt floor. “I saved you. Unfortunately, you were wounded in the process.” 
	“Attacked?” Lynx said in sudden alarm. “By whom?!” 
	“Beats me,” the boy said dismissively. “I just saw a pretty girl in trouble.”
	Lynx looked the boy up and down disbelievingly. Jiao was small, not much taller than Starr, his slightly tattered traveling clothes hanging off of his thin frame. Lynx was bigger and probably stronger. He doubted the boy could lift him, let alone defend himself in a fight. He wondered what he had needed saving from. 
	Jiao sat back down, tilting his head to one side. “Feeling better yet?” he asked innocently. 
	Lynx glared and raised two fingers to his head in response. He poured cool, cool magic around his forehead and temple, feeling it sooth and dampen the pain. 
	Jiao whistled, impressed. “A healer,” he said. “I mean, the mind magic was painfully obvious, after sitting through all those flashbacks, but healing magic is actually…useful.” 
	Lynx blinked, the pain from his head subsiding. He could almost concentrate now. “What?” he said. “Flashbacks?” 
	Jiao nodded. “You were having some pretty intense dreams. Repressed or unpleasant memories, by the feel of it. I suppose your subconscious felt it was necessary to share them with every sentient creature in the immediate area. Either that or you were discharging excess magic. Mind magic becomes unstable in large concentrations,” he placed a finger on his lips and thought about this. He shook his head. “Either way - you have issues.” 
	Lynx ran a hand through his hair only to find it stringy and unpleasant at the touch. He lowered his hand slowly and tried to think how to deal with this person in front of him. 
	“What did you see?” he said eventually, voice low.
	Jiao looked at him evenly. “Enough to know who you are. And that you go by Lynx, although Starr told me that much. I don’t think I’ve ever seen anyone so upset,” he added musingly. 
	“What happened?” Lynx’s stomach sank with a jolt. “Where’s Starr?” 
	“Mmm,” Jiao said, shrugging, and didn’t say anything else. He was watching Lynx.
	“But she’s okay, right?” Lynx asked hopefully. “No one got hurt?” 
	“No one except you. I found you pretty far inland from Aracus. You were already hurt. Honestly,” Jiao said, “I was expecting thanks, not an interrogation.” 
	Lynx swallowed slowly, stomach sinking lower. He did not like this person in front of him. “I didn’t ask for your help,” he said coolly, “nor for your opinions. I appreciate what you may have done for me and my traveling companion, but I fail to see what business of yours it may be. You’ll be properly compensated for your assistance, and I’d thank you to be on your way as soon able.” 
	Jiao regarded Lynx as if he had let him down rather badly. “I can’t do that,” he said solemnly. “I’m going back to Thamalia with you.” 
	“What?” 
	“I’m a Mountain Person. I’ve been sent to petition Parliament for better conditions for Mountain People,” said Jiao, “and I still plan to do that. I was on my way there when I found you. Besides, Starr is a nice girl and I don’t know what would happen if I left her alone with you.” 
	“Nothing would happen,” Lynx said irritably. “It was a one time event.” 
	“Then you wouldn’t mind if I speak of it at my hearing? The way I see it, you’re indebted to me.” 
	Lynx stared at him. “You’re threatening me,” he said flatly. “Me. You realize what this means?” 
	Jiao shrugged. “Mountain People get largely ignored in the general politics of this country, not being one of the four patron races. It’s not fair to us. Of course, if the King of Lyradis were to give me his assurances to improve our conditions, the fine men and women Thamalia would be none the wiser to this embarrassing event and I could return home early.” He looked wistful. “It’s win-win.”
	“No,” Lynx said flatly. “I can’t. Parliament won’t listen to you either.”
	“You can’t or you won’t?”
	“Both. Maters of personal reputation don’t enter into it.” 
	“Am I interrupting something?”
	They both turned

	“I’m still going to Thamalia,” Jiao protested. He turned to Lynx. “Are you going to reconsider my request?”
	“No,” Lynx said flatly. 
	“Then I have no choice to lobby to Parliament,” Jiao said worriedly. 
	Lynx shrugged. “Suit yourself. They probably won’t listen to you either.” 
	“You always have to try. And if I make myself annoying enough, you’re bound to reconsider. Maybe if I --?”
	“NO.”
	“Oh, please? Please please? It’s a long way to Thamalia.” 
	“I said, NO!” Lynx shook his sleeve free of Jiao and whipped it out of reach. Starr giggled behind her hands. 

“No, but who do you think teaches the horses to follow all those commands?” he stroked the neck lovingly, then looked into Starr’s face. “Some of my family are horse trainers,” he said with a large grin. “Very good money in that.”

	To her surprise, he had changed clothes. They were still simple compared to the ones Lynx wore, but the cut and quality of the fabric had improved dramatically. He had kept the beads and the feathered necklace and still wore a tatted cape, but looked clean and respectable, like the son of a wealthy merchant. Starr wondered where he had found time to go shopping and where he had gotten the money. She worried vaguely that he was a thief. 
	“Hello,” he greeted her cheerfully, all smiles and a wave. “Where’s Lynx?”
	“I don’t know,” Starr admitted, pushing her mistrust to the back of her mind. If Jiao had stolen from them, Lynx would have noticed. “He likes to disappear. He hates being caught in things.”
	“Hmm,” Jiao looked thoughtful. “Let’s go find him.” 
	“Can we?” Starr said, forgetting that that’s what she would do normally anyway. “He’s very had to catch if he doesn’t want to be found. The guards may not let us through.” 
	“Oh, they will,” Jiao waved his hand. “I think you have more influence around the palace than you realize,” he smiled winningly at a serving girl as she passed. The girl looked shocked, then blushed and giggled, smiling back. 
	“So will you, if you keep flirting with the help,” Starr snapped. “And what’s with the new clothes anyway?”
	“I have to look my best if I’m to go before the Chamber,” he said, tilting his head to one side as if it was obvious. “The Elders gave me money, you know. Might as well spend it.”

“Damn it!” Jiao clutched at the left side of his face, blood from his wounded eye flowing out onto his hand. He dropped to the ground and rolled out of the way.
“Jiao!” Starr panicked and let go of the fire spell, desperately trying to get to Jiao. As she skidded to a stop near him, the fireball roared in the distance, eventually withering into small flame, and drowning harmlessly in a puddle. 
“Ugg…” Jiao’s eyelid was squeezed shut and he rocked slowly, more in impatience than in pain. “Eyes…Why does it always have to be the eyes?”
“Jiao?” Starr bent over him, her worry and befuddlement apparent. Any normal person would be screaming in pain from a wound that severe -- why wasn’t Jiao? 
“Give me a moment,” Jiao mumbled, and his voice sounded far away. He stood, back towards Starr, and rubbed at his eye. The lid had sealed shut. 
Starr, still concerned and slightly curious, tired to peer closer at his face, but Jiao turned away. He glanced sideways at her with his one good eye. Starr thought he looked almost angry. 
“Where’s Lynx?” he asked, and pressed hard on her mind.
Starr glanced vaguely down the corridor. 
“He’s down there, fighting,” she frowned. “And without us!” she looked upward in distain, but froze almost instantly. Something was not right. She could feel him in her head, making her thoughts muddled, trying to make her forget. Forget? She blinked. Forget what?
Jiao spun around and punched an Artensian soldier who had come up behind them in the face. Starr watched vaguely as the soldier’s helmet spun comically and he fell to the floor. Somehow, the other Artensians running down the hall did not register with her. Her thoughts were still all mixed-up. 
Behind her, Jiao was shaking his hand in pain and dancing from foot to foot. Starr stared at him blankly.
Had something happened to his eye? His left eye looked kind of blank, like the pupil was missing. Oh, she could see the pupil now, black against the blue iris. She glanced at it again. No, she must have been mistaken, his eyes were the same grey and yellow as always. But she could have sworn that for just a second they had been as blue as a summer sky…
She came back into reality with an unpleasant snap. Jiao was screaming at her.
‘Don’t just stand there!” he roared. “Do something!”
Five more Artensians were careening dangerously towards them. Jiao spun, elbowing one in the head and kicking another one in an unprotected kidney.

A thought occurred to him.
	“Starr,” he said, slowly. “You mentioned that you can do transport spells?” 
	“Did I?” she scowled at him, but he just continued to look at her hopefully. “Oh, alright, I can. But they’re more complicated than that.”
	Lynx’s brow furled. “How so?”
	“Well, for one,” Starr said irritably, “they’re vastly layered spells. The spell needs to be able to know exactly where it is you want to go and still be able to keep everything the same when you get there. If you’re not careful, you can end up stuck half in a wall and your hair bright purple. The most simple variants of the spell can only move the caster in straight lines for a set distance – which can be useful, true, but unless you know what is precisely three miles north of the exact spot where you started, you run the risk of appearing in the middle of a lake. 
	“The more complicated ones 

	“Then we’re going to the D’nani,” Lynx said flatly. 
	Both D’li and Starr began to protest at the same time. 
	“Your Majesty! That’s folly –“ 
	“Lynx! You can’t –“ 
	“I can and I will,” Lynx snapped back at them. “Okirun is invulnerable right now, amassing troops behind that ruddy barrier of his. We need the last crystal to break it, the last crystal that the D’nani have.
	“Look,” he added at the blank stares around him. “This attack was Okirun’s warning. He’s powerful enough to attack Thamalia directly and he wants us to know it. 

	“It’s always easier to apologize later than to ask permission first.”
	Starr looked worried. “Isn’t that a dangerous philosophy in government?” 
	“Very,” Lynx scowled at a piece of paper. “Especially for elected officials. I can just claim divine right and be done with it, but most of the Nobles rely on their ability to alter public perception. In other words: ‘It’s easier to do what you want initially and clean up later.’ Catering to other people takes too much work. 
	Starr was beginning to get used to this type of cynicism and managed a weak smile. It still bothered her that the people who were supposed to protect her -- the Noble Lords and their King -- looked out only for themselves. 
	“Oh, don’t think that,” Lynx said kindly. “I do try my best. And most Nobles take their duties to their people very importantly. Very few people in the world are out only for themselves.”

	She squatted in the dirt, swirling it around with one finger. “Reesimah was created second of the four sisters and the Great God was pleased with what he had created. But where he had bestowed Eltanin with a gift of a necklace made of stars, he decided to bestow upon Reesimah the gift of his love. But Reesimah had looked down on the world and fallen in love with what she saw there and so did not go willingly to the Great God’s bed. In her rage, she torched the land that she had once loved, for if she should be denied of that love then no one else should be able to enjoy it.
	“But Reesimah saw the dry, dusty wasteland she had created and loved it still. So she made the People and gave it to them to watch over. The heat did not bother her people, being born from the same fire as from which she came. She taught them to bring up water to grow their food and to embrace the red rock of the land. The people loved the rock like they loved the land as all rock is born in fire. And so the people lived peacefully…
	“When the wars came, the people had been living in their lands for a long time. Eight powerful families had emerged and rallied tribes behind them. But as Reesimah called her people to her to take back the land so denied her by the Great God, the tribes split. Most of the tribes stood behind their Goddess who had created them and shown them their way of life. But two tribes wished to stay and protect the great cities they had built instead of fighting for the other races’ land. These tribes were banished, and sought refuge among the Elves, for the other great race had cities almost as big as the D’nani ones the tribes had left behind.
	“Reesimah was not interested in the seas of the Azor nor the mountain dwellings of the Humans, but in the expansive territories the Elyan held. Reesimah did not wish to see the land she had looked down on and loved so dearly in the hands of her sister who betrayed her to the Great God by accepting his gifts. And so from the six remaining tribes she selected Kavendar Theran and untied the people against the Elves.
	“But the people had underestimated their enemies. The Elyan were strong warriors and used the traitor D’nani to predict the People’s moves. There were many battles won and lost on both sides and the People began to grow tired. Their great cities were no more and the land they conquered little more than the tattered wasteland they had left behind, but with none of the rock they could call home. And so, the D’nani, exhausted and pulled away from their homeland were finally defeated.
	“Although the Elyan had chained them, and chained the great Kavendar, they were not cruel conquerors. Their leader, the Warrior, offered to give the D’nani back their homeland in return for peace. The Warrior gave them back their cousins who had betrayed them in the war. Then the Warrior asked the people for their help. 
	“He said that the races had been pushed into great battles by love for their Goddesses, but that the Goddesses had shown no compassion for the people slain in battle. He asked for the D’nani’s help in overthrowing the Goddesses, as only all the races united could stand up to their power. 
	“The D’nani were beaten and bruised and wished only to return to the lands Reesimah had given them. Many of their brothers and daughters had died in the war and they wished only to appease their Goddess. The Elvan Warrior let them go.
	“The D’nani people went and asked Reesimah for forgiveness, for losing her lands. But the Goddess was too enraged to offer the people any respite. She cursed them for accepting their traitor cousins back in their midst and cursed them for losing to her sister’s race. In her fury, she destroyed the last great D’nani city, Esvanya, and forbade her people from ever returning to that place, to the great city by the sea. So the People left and Kavendar, betrayed by his Goddess returned to ask the Elvan Warrior for his help.”
	Starr stopped and looked up at Lynx. “There’s more,” she said, “but I don’t know it as well. The D’nani don’t like to tell of the help the Great Warrior gave. But he and Kavendar succeeded in sealing away the Goddesses, I do know that much. Kavendar sacrificed his love, Theran Selistra, for the good of the People.” 
	“Reesimah was sealed in Kavendar’s wife,” Lynx said quietly. “The bond has been passed down from mother to daughter since then. Now you have it. The Theran D’nani are considered both sacred and unlucky for Selistra’s sacrifice.”

	They walked on the dusty edge of a shallow ravine, a now-dry creek bed formed by quick summer floods cutting through the loose dirt. Every once in a while they passed under the insufficient shade of a scraggly tree, gray green leaves growing close to the ground. The ravine provided reference, a path to follow. On either side there stretched miles of flat, arid desert, vast expanses of green and purple shrubs with only rabbit trails cutting through. There was really nowhere else to walk. 
	In the distance navy mountains clung to the horizon, colorless compared to the orange ground underneath and the the vivid sky up above. Starr loved that sky. It was always so intense, so pure and cloudless, almost as if it was glowing softly with daylight. The turquoise blue she had taken for granted as a child...

	Lynx kept himself focused on the mountains in the distance. They looked cool and inviting and broke the monotony of the desert’s sameness. The lack of green disturbed him; he found the low shrubs that littered the landscape a pale substitute for rolling grasslands and dense forests. And besides, they weren’t properly green. The shades of gray and green and purple were alien to him. He allowed himself to think of the mountains as a source of comfort, salvation even. He was in the heart of D’nani territory, alone and essentially powerless. Any encounter with the D’nani before they employed the help of the Theran would be.... He didn’t want to contemplate it. 
	He rubbed the back of his neck and winced in pain. The skin was sunburned. What a retch he must look -- face tanned and burned in patches, hair bleached by the sun and netted with sweat. The desert was not his place and the D’nani were not his people. 
	They had been keeping off the roads as much as possible less they be discovered. Starr had been sent into villages occasionally to buy provisions, as without Esroh they were limited by how much they could carry. The villagers always regarded her with suspicion, even when she spoke to them in D’nani. Her clothes were too fine and her coins were too strange for her to be a refugee -- most probably thought her a spy for the traitor Meh’Rog or, worse, the Elves. 
	Lynx shifted uneasily, feeling a slight guilt at the truth of that sentiment. He was using her, even more so than when he had initially positioned her as leverage against Okirun. The problem was, she had stopped objecting. She had blossomed in the heat and sun, enchanted to be back in her homeland, but the constant alienation and begun to wear her down. She returned from from village trips irritable, mouth set in a thin, unhappy line, ready to snap at Lynx for the smallest infractions. The hope of acceptance, that the Theran would take her back and love her as they had done as a child kept her pressing on, kept her staring at the mountains as much as Lynx. 
	Lynx had been trying not to think about what would happen once Starr reached the Theran.

	On the seventh day, they reached the mountains. They picked their way carefully as the gentle rise in the land gave way to foothills, impressive rock clusters nestled against ridges where gravity had pulled them. Lynx noticed vaguely that the sparse foliage was becoming more dense, small shrubs giving way to scraggly bushes and lichen covered rocks. 
	They stopped in the shade of a boulder close to where the foothills met the steep rise of the mountain, resting from the mid-afternoon heat. 
	“Right,” Lynx said, artificially cheerful while Starr took a swig of water, “which way to the Theran?”
	Starr frowned and wiped the stray drops from her chin. 
	“What do you mean?” she said.  “How should I know?”
	“What?” said Lynx, his stomach sinking unpleasantly. 
	“The last time I was there I was a child. And I’d never been outside of my village until it was destroyed. How do I even know if its in the same place?” she stood up and looked Lynx in the eye. “Are you telling me you don’t know his way around your own country?”
	“Not D’nani territory,” Lynx snapped. “This area has been off limit since I was twelve! They’d kill me if they so much as found me breathing here! The most I know about the Kolouric peninsula is what I’ve seen on a map.” 
	“So where’s the map?” Starr asked hesitantly, afraid she already knew the answer.
	“In my study, with the rest of the maps,” Lynx’s eyes had widened with something akin to panic. “I thought you would know where we were going.” 
	They stared at each other in silence. Starr sat back down heavily and passed Lynx back the water skin. He spit a mouthful on the ground then sighted and sat next to Starr.
	“Well,” he said finally, “I guess we’ll just have to pick a direction and walk. We can ask at the next village we come to,” he sighed. Starr nodded sullenly, still a little too dishearten to say anything. 
	Lynx pulled his hair off his forehead and neck, wiping away the sweat. He was tired and worried and hot and respite was so very far away. He scooped up his belongings and clanked out of the shade, regarding the empty foothills. “No choice but to keep going, I guess. We should stay out of the sun, head to the east side of the mountains,” he turned towards the open landscape and came face to face with a D’nani soldier in full camouflage paint. His mouth fell open in surprise and he tried to twist away, back to Starr. 
	The D’nani soldier was faster. She grabbed his arm and twisted it behind his back, unsheathing a short dagger and rapping him firmly on the back of his head. Lynx’s eyes rolled backwards, mouth still open in surprise, and he crumpled backward into her arms. 
	Starr stared at the D’nani woman and then tried to bolt. She barely managed two steps when someone caught her from behind. She lurched and struggled, trying to see her assailers, but something hard hit the back of her head and everything dissolved into darkness. 

	The floor was cold.
	The floor was cold and his head hurt. 
	The floor was cold and his head hurt and his shoulders ached and his stomach wouldn’t stay in its proper place and his side was a mass of interestingly colored bruises. 
	This was not good. 
	Lynx struggled to push himself off the floor and discovered that his hands were bound behind his back with what felt like thick metal handcuffs. He rubbed at them blindly with his fingers, then, cautiously, set about exploring them with his magic.
	A wave of dizziness swept over him, blanking out his vision and filling its place with nausea. He gasped and panted. Well, using magic was out. Either he had been drugged, or his power was taking this opportunity to act up. He strongly suspected both. No, this was not good at all. 
There was a sound of metal creaking, as if bolts were being drawn in the next room. Lynx fought to clear his vision, taking in his surroundings quickly, looking for possible escape. 
He was in a dim room that looked as if it had been hollowed out of red rock. Not with great care, either, as both the floor and walls were decidedly lumpy and marred with marks from a chisel. The ceiling was low and jagged – Lynx doubted he would have been able to stand up fully, if he had been in any state to stand up. A metal door was set into the rock wall opposite him and other than it, there was, most decidedly, no way out. 
	Lynx watched the door warily. The noise was coming from the other side and, as he waited, the creaking slowly dissipated, and with a click the door swung open. 
The man who walked into the room was tall, tall enough to have to stoop as he entered. He wore a tattered brown coat over pants and boots and possessed a multitude of leather belts hung with pouches at various angles. His orange hair pulled into a tail behind his neck, broad shoulders, and the ridged ears of a D’nani. He grinned when he saw Lynx.
“Well now,” he said. His voice was rough but not unpleasant. “What do we have here?” 
Lynx bit his lip and looked at the man. He declined to answer. 
The man strode over to him and knelt down on the dusty floor. He regarded Lynx impassively. “I won’t lie, you’re in a very bad position, my friend,” he said warningly. “There are those that would have you killed merely for breathing. Me? I’m a curious man and it piques my curiosity to see an Elyan deep in the heart of Nog’Rog territory.”
“So you’ll just kill me later,” Lynx raised one eyebrow, trying to look unimpressed. It was difficult – his head still pounded and his mouth was dry enough to hinder speech. He swallowed a mouthful of saliva against the dryness and dizziness and tried again. “Who are you?” he said suspiciously. 
“Me?” the D’nani’s forehead creased in mock indignation. “Me? I’m shocked – hurt – that you don’t know. Yes, I’m so hurt I don’t think I shall tell you.  Now,” he rocked back, balancing on his heels, “the real question is, who are you? What’s your name, elf?”
Lynx looked up at the D’nani, calculating his reply. Beneath the orange hair, cool gray eyes stared back at him threateningly. 
“Lynx,” Lynx said hesitantly then fell silent, watching the other man. The D’nani glanced briefly at Lynx’s bound hands and seemed wordlessly surprised that nothing had happened. His lips thinned. Truth spells, Lynx realized, through the dizziness. They have me wrapped in truth spells. 
“All right then, Lynx,” the man said pleasantly. “You are a prisoner of the Nog’Rog D’nani. By our laws, I essentially hold your life in forfeit. Now, I can’t kill you and I can’t bring harm to you in any way until you’re brought before the Council for judgment, but,” he leaned closer, “that doesn’t mean I can’t have the spells do it for me. I highly suggest you start talking. The suppressants we pumped into you will start affecting your magic sooner and your mind later. But, I’d rather have you tell me sooner than later, eh?”
Bugger, thought Lynx. Truth spells and mind-alteration. Bloody D’nani. His eyes scanned the room. He could make a break for the door, but he doubted he could get it open with his hands behind his back. Besides, there was probably a hallway filled with guards beyond and that was never a happy prospect. With his magic and his hands bound, there wasn’t much he could do. And, Lynx admitted to himself, there was the tiny little hindrance of being so dizzy that he could barely stand up. He repressed the growing feeling of foreboding sneaking up on him – or maybe it was just nausea. 
So what was going to happen? He could convince them to let him go – highly unlikely – or he could wait here until someone rescued him. That was the problem with sneaking off, he realized. Nobody knew you were gone.Something was still missing. Someone was missing. His eyes opened wide. 
“Starr!” he gasped. “Where’s Starr? What have you done with her?” He tried to jump to his feet, forgetting being bound, and ended up falling flat on his face.
The D’nani watched him emotionlessly, saying nothing.
“Please,” Lynx said a little desperately. Starr was D’nani after all and these were her people. He didn’t think they would hurt her, but then, the machinations people were capable of always managed to surprise him. “I was with a girl – a D’nani – when I came here. Where is she? Is she safe?”
“Why was a D’nani girl with you?” the D’nani tilted his head to the side. He seemed genuinely curious now. 
“I was taking her home,” Lynx said. His heart sank a little. Where was she? “She’s Theran D’nani – I was supposed to deliver her. She had been living with humans all of her life and I was supposed to give her back,” he paused, and happened upon an idea. He pushed himself back up to a sitting position. “I was to take her back to the Theran and then find a man named L’rehan.” 
“L’rehan?” the D’nani said blankly. “Why L’rehan?” 
Lynx remembered the truth spells. “I have a message,” he said more or less truthfully. “I’m supposed to have diplomatic immunity,” he gave the D’nani a meaningful look. 
The man pursed his lips. “Starr isn’t a D’nani name,” he said pointedly, changing the subject.
Lynx glared at him rather then. “Her full name’s Starriphon Theran. She goes by Starr. Is she with you? If you’ve hurt her…”
The man was silent for a long time. Then, “She’s of no concern to you.” 
Lynx felt his temper rising. “No concern?! Of course she’s my concern. She needs to –” he stopped, and shook his head. “She’s D’nani, all right? I was just trying to help her out. If you have any problems with an Elyan being in your territory, fine. So be it. But don’t take it out on her. She has nothing to do with this,” he looked up sharply and met the D’nani’s eyes. Without his magic, Lynx couldn’t read them at all – they seemed cold and impenetrable.  
“Why did you agree to help her?”
	“Because,” said Lynx angrily, “I had to!”
	“Liar,” the D’nani said. “Try again.” He continued staring at Lynx, unperturbed.
	Lynx swallowed and, to his great surprise, told the truth. 
	“She reminds me of my sister,” he said quietly. 
	The D’nani just looked at him. Lynx looked back mulishly, stubbornly ignoring the fact that his head was pounding unnaturally and the corners of his vision had gone white and swimming. The dizziness and nausea had been slowly getting worse, but now the feeling of sickness cascaded over him. It would soon get to the point where he wouldn’t be able to think clearly, much less ignore the pain. He was getting worried. 
	The D’nani seemed to decide something and he stood up, wordlessly. He strode over to the door.
	“Wait,” Lynx called desperately. “If you won’t tell me where Starr is, may I at least talk to L’rehan? Please, it’s important.” 
	The D’nani turned around and raised one eyebrow. “Who did you think you were talking to all this time?” he ginned and was gone. 
	Lynx closed his eyes and collapsed to the floor, feeling sick in more way than one. 

	L’rehan paused in the corridor as the guards drew the bolts and locks behind him. He wasn’t worried about the Elyan escaping; he was safely behind two layers of fire-warded metal and encased by ten feet of rock on either side. The spells were a bit of a problem, though; he’d considered the amount of suppressants they’d put into his blood paired with the spells in the cuffs excessive at best, but the Elyan had still been conscious enough to cheat multi-layered truth tellers. L’rehan didn’t like it.
	And he didn’t dare hope what Lynx had said was true.
“Tell me,” he said with as much nonchalance as he could muster, “there was a D’nani captured at the same time as the Elyan, true?”
The guards glanced at each other before replying.
“Yessir,” one said. “She’s been put on the higher level, one of the rooms there.”
 L’rehan looked at him seriously. “Did she give a name?”
“Honestly sir,” a guard said curiously. “We didn’t think it was relevant.”
“Never mind, then,” L’rehan frowned. “Has anyone been to interview her yet?”
“No sir. It’s Havveran and Resteri on her guard right now. If you’d like, we could send a message up.”
“No need,” L’rehan said pleasantly. “I’ll go myself. Oh, and get an extra guard to watch over the elf. I don’t want to allow him any opportunity,” he paused, considering. “And a medic, maybe. He was having some sort of reaction to the truth tellers.” He strode down the hall to the guard’s salutes and started to climb the thin spiral staircase to the upper level. He had to keep from bolting up the carved stone stairs, consciously telling himself to put each foot down in a slow and care-free manner. 
Half-way up he decided, bugger it, and ran the rest of the way. 

The floor L’rehan skidded to a halt at was a world different from the one he had just left below. Here, the red rock walls were actually finished, detailed carvings and inlays adorning their surfaces and extending across the arched ceiling. The stone tiles were polished to a shine and squeaked against the rubber of his boots. L’rehan tugged at his coat and set off down the hall. This was a guest floor, closer to the surface than the military barracks and prison down below. Still, the floor was currently deserted, and each room’s cell-like nature and heavy wooden doors made it ideal for containing low-security prisoners without using the rather harsh prison facilities. 
He strode down the hall, still tugging at his coat nervously, before coming to a stop in front of the sole guarded room.  He nodded to his D’nani soldiers as they saluted him and, without further a word, quietly pushed open the wooden door. 
The room was dark inside. As his eyes adjusted slowly, he could make out a rather impressive collection of pillows and cushions splayed about the room, forming dark, mountainous lumps. The room appeared to be empty. He stared into the darkness, the slit of light from the door casting pale colors across the dark shapes. The ornate door handle was digging into his hand but he did not notice. 
“Starr?” he said, into the darkness. 
A lump stirred and rose off the floor, becoming vaguely person shaped. His heart jumped. He flicked a switch to the left and the torches in the room sprang to life, flickering cheerfully. A girl with red hair so dark it was almost the color of wine stared at him in the sudden brightness, green eyes wide. 
“Alnerki?!” she said. 
There was a silence in which he could hear his heart in his head. “Starr…” he managed, and swallowed. He realized he was still clutching the door handle and let go of it. His hand hit his side and he rushed forward, scattering cushions across the room. He fell to his knees and embraced his cousin. 
“I thought I lost you,” he said. “Starr...”

	She stopped and put down the cup on the table. “Alnerki, if you’re here - where’s Jynaia?”
	Alnerki folded his arms. “Dead,” he said flatly, face emotionless. “She died. Three years ago.”
	“What?! No! Why? What happened?”
	Alnerki was still strangely calm. “She was part of the original Nog’Rog resistance. She died in an explosion in the Elyan embassy in Artensia. Her group was trying to bomb the place. The bomb went off early. None of them survived.”
	“I can’t -- I --” Starr swallowed heavily. “I’m -- sorry, Alnerki. I’ve missed so much. I just didn’t know.” She smiled weakly. “But here we are. Me, wrapped up with more Elyan politics than I ever knew existed, and you, a smarmy bachelor running the D’nani resistance.” 
	Alnerki grinned then. “Not quite a bachelor,” he held up his left hand. A thin gold ring sat on his third finger. “Jynaia and I married when we were eighteen.”
	“Oh, gods. You’re kidding, Alnerki! That’s wonderful! But -- But she’s --”
	“Hmph. I know, I know she’s dead,” he shook his head, smile still plastered disingenuously on. “Why do you think I became L’rehan? She’s dead and she’s dead for a stupid reason. The old guard was idiotic - intent on random acts of terrorism and violence designed to get the government to notice us.” His expression turned dark. “It doesn’t work. The Elyan just see us as an annoyance, an immoral force to be destroyed. Jynaia did what she did because believed in what she was doing -- I believe I can do it better.” 
	Starr was silent, hands folded neatly in her lap. “Then, what are you doing?” she said quietly. 
	

	
	“It’s my artisan mark,” Alnerki said, mouth twisting with a mix of pride and sadness. Somewhere, long ago, Starr remembered a fireside and a scrap of parchment with a moon on it. Alnerki sighed. “I worked under an false identity,” he said by means of explanation. “When I was young, I wanted to be recognized. I wanted reputation and the money that comes with it – the only people in Lyradis who can provide that are the Nobles and the elves. The D’nani’s trade embargo makes it nearly impossible for new artisans to become recognized. So I started selling things secretly when I was still an apprentice to get a little extra cash on the side. I used a moon as my mark because I thought it would appeal to the elves.” He shrugged. “I guess it worked. I was commissioned twice by the royal family – once for a set of amour and then again for a ring. I always wondered what happened to those pieces…” he turned the pauldrons around in his hands appraisingly. His fingers paused as they found a flaw in the enamel. “I could do better now,” he admitted. 
	Lynx remained immobile, shoulders tensed and glowering slightly. He loved those pauldrons and desperately wanted them back, damn the artist who had made them. At the same time, he felt slightly cheated that the D’nani whose work he had admired as a prince turned out to be the man in front of him. 
	Alnerki looked him straight on. “I don’t like you,” he said, “but you helped me, in a strange way. I hope you realize that money from the royal treasury is going to fuel the D’nani resistance.” He passed back the pauldrons, smiling smugly. 
	Lynx half shrugged and tried to take back the armor nonchalantly. He only managed to not snatch it desperately out of Alnerki’s hands. 
	“It’s just money,” he said darkly. “Thank you for the armor.” 
	“What happened to the ring?” Alnerki said curiously. It was clear that he had been eager to ask. 
	“It was for my sister,” Lynx said flatly. “She still has it.” 
	“Ah. Too bad. It was one of my favorites,” he sighed and wiped his hands on his leather coat. 
	Lynx tucked the pauldrons quietly under his arm. 

	“Alnerki’s not a bad person,” Starr said suddenly. Lynx had been dreading her bringing this up. 
	“I’m sure he isn’t,” his reply had an edge to it that told her to leave it alone. Starr pressed on anyway. 
	“You might like him, if you met under different circumstances.” 
	“I’m sure I might,” the edge was more pronounced. 
	“And he did make your armor for you,” Starr said desperately. 
	“Indeed he did,” Lynx stared detachedly ahead. 
	“Lynx….” 
	“Yes?”
	“Never mind,” she sighed and slumped backwards in her saddle, letting the horse’s stride bump against her awkwardly. 
	
	“My necklace,” Starr said angrily. “You took it in Kolouric. I want it back.”
	“What? Oh, right.” Distracted, Lynx fished the long chain from an inner pocket. He pooled the chain in Starr’s outstretched hand, carefully placing the heavy crystal on top. “Here. It’s yours, after all.”
	“Thank you,” Starr said stiffly and closed her hand around the necklace.
	 Jiao’s eyes widened into saucers. “No!” he screamed. “Don’t touch it!” 
	Starr looked at him blankly and dropped the necklace. There was a smell of burnt flesh and the sound of something sizzling. Starr looked down at her hand and screamed, a long, terrified scream. 
	The skin where the metal and beads had touched her was burned in angry red stripes. The crystal itself fuzed to her palm. There, it pulsed like a heartbeat before melting, absorbing itself into her skin. 
	Starr cried out and suddenly she wasn’t Starr anymore. 
	The woman who stood there wasn’t taller than Starr and yet she was taller than a person had any right to be. She appeared to be realer than her surroundings, a solid, glowing body of flesh and curves, her skin shining with the luster of marble. She inhaled slowly, eyes closed and relaxed, hair cascading down her shoulders and back in an impossible mass of curls. 
	The room had suddenly gone very cold. Lynx took a step forward; Jiao took a step back and pressed himself against the wall, making himself as small as possible. Lynx reached out, cautiously, to touch the woman. 
	“Starr?” he said.
	She opened her eyes.
	

	She shook her head and long wafts of red hair settled over her shoulders. “My hair,” she said wondrously. It had grown, in the time she had been with Lynx, but it had hung only barely to her shoulders. Now it was past her waist, draped in tangled strings across the remains of her clothing. She rolled a tuft experimentally in her fingers. 
“An artifact of the transformation,” Lynx said, remembering the cascades of curls that surrounded Reesimah. “Your hair grew to match hers.”
Starr suddenly swept the hair aside and looked up at him with tears in her eyes. “Lynx!” she cried and flung herself at him and clinging to his shirt. “I’m sorry! I was gone, so gone. And you…were old.” She didn’t seem to know what she was saying. Lynx held her and stroked her hair. 
“You came back,” he said quietly. “Don’t worry, don’t worry about any of it.”

	“Sheesh,” Jiao said, the crystal floating between his fingers. “There used to be barriers around these things, to prevent shit like that from happening. It must have gotten stripped at some point. Damn D’nani, not repairing their wards.” A bright light outlined the crystal, increasing in intensity until it finally collapsed in on itself, leaving only a faint glow in the crystal’s depth. “There,” Jiao smiled. “All better.” He held out the crystal and chain to a flabbergasted Lynx and Starr. “The chain broke, I’m sorry. But you can have it repaired, no worries.”
	Lynx just stared at him. “What are you?” he breathed. 


	“Did you know the Warrior?” Starr leaned forward excitedly. “Some say he conversed with the Great God.”
	“Who?” Jiao said blankly.
	“The Great Warrior! The one who led the Elyan to victory and gave the D’nani back their homeland! He overthrew the Goddesses themselves!”
	“Oh,” Jiao said. “Him. Well, I suppose…”
	“You did?” Starr was teetering on the edge of excitement.
	“Yes, I mean, no,” he backed away from the eager Starr. “I didn’t know him – I was him.”

 “Why not completely bypass the church altogether? Most people don’t even believe in you.” 
Jiao ignored this comment. “Lynx draws his power from the religious dominance established during the Holy Wars,” he said. “From the story of the Goddesses and the belief that one race was created to rule over all the others. If he ignores any part of the Creed, even if it’s just an obscure theological doctrine, he’s undermining his source of authority. People believe their rulers were selected by divine forces, or even that the rulers themselves are godly; if Lynx refuses to accept the Creed’s teachings, the people will reject him as a fake,” Jiao shook his head. “Even what Lynx is doing now is costly – people will become suspicious. It’s even possible that, when all this is over, the Elyan will pushed off the Lyradi throne for good.”


Part 3 - Artensa

	Jiao laughed, as if she had said something innocently funny. “You forget,” he pointed out, “I’ve known Lynx all of his life.”
	Starr stiffened uncomfortably. “What, you’ve been watching him?” 
	“You could say that, I guess,” Jiao leaned back and studied her face. “As creator of this world, there are certain things I have to look into. Lynx just happens to be one of them.”

	“But surely, you’re alive?” 
	Jiao didn’t meet her eyes and instead peered downwards at his hands. “Am I?” he said nonchalantly. “What is alive?” 
	Starr looked shocked at the question. Jiao smiled at her sideways. 
	“It’s actually a very difficult concept to define,” he said kindly. “Being alive is one of those things we take so for granted that when it comes down to it, none of us really understand what it means. What makes us alive? Blood? Breath? The ability of thought? Certainly, they’re all things necessary to our continued existence, but plants don’t think and don’t breathe in the same way as we do and they’re definitely alive. Can the innards of insects really be considered blood in the same manner of the substance that beats through our veins? Is mold alive, even though it doesn’t have a mouth, or even a brain?
	“In essence, it’s easier to define life through what it isn’t than what it is. The most definite part of life is the absence of it; death. To be alive, something must be able to die. You must be able to extinguish that life in some manner. Death is the most distinct thing about being alive. Plants can die, insects can die, animals and people can die. Every life, at its end, has a death.”
	“But you –“
	“Yes,” Jiao looked up at her, his yellow eyes wide and sad. “But me.”

	Jiao was sitting on the deck, eating an apple. Alnerki leaned on the railing regarding him tiredly. 
	“Have you come to chastise me too?” Alnerki said, smiling crookedly, pushed to the very edge of his good nature. 
	Me?” said Jiao in surprise. “Of course not. You’re being far too nice. I don’t think they realize it.”
	Alnerki laughed. “You’d have me move him to the brig?”
	Jiao scoffed through a mouthful of apple. “I’d have you throw him overboard. He can find his own way back, with the fish and the Azore.”
	“You’re harsh,” Alnerki said. “I’m not sure I like that in a god.”
	“Not really,” Jiao said mildly, taking another bite. “Only when it comes to him.”
	“You don’t like him?” Alnerki was surprised. “One’d almost think that the world revolves around him. Her world does, at least.”
	Jiao did not have to ask who Alnerki meant. He swallowed and looked thoughtful. 
	“Lets just say,” Jiao said warily, “that there are some unresolved issues there. And he deserves it.” 
	He stood and moved away, leaving Alnerki to ponder how a friendly exchange could end so seriously.

	It was a medium-sized guest quartering, plain and practical. The furniture had been removed except for the single bunk built into the wall. This surprised Starr. She had dimly expected a storage closet, not a guest room. Such privacy was considered an enormous luxury and the majority of the other quarters housed several people each. Alnerki was being his practical self, though; there was to be no wasting of extra resources here, even if it meant giving Lynx a prison more comfortable he deserved. Or, Starr thought, perhaps Alnerki had done it on purpose, and he was subtly indicating he didn’t hate the Elyan quite as much as he claimed. 
	Lynx was not in the bunk and he was not standing in the room. He was seated slouched against a wall, long legs extending nearly his prison’s length. His wrists were still bound with metal and he held his hands limply in his lap. He did not look up when Starr entered. 
	He’s moping, Starr thought with a sad smile. He’s good at that. He probably wouldn’t talk to her, she sighed, but it was worth a shot. 
She knelt down softly by him.
	“I’m sorry, Lynx,” she said, and meant it. “Are you all right?”
	“No,” Lynx said. His voice contained no trace of self-pity and sounded nothing at all like his usual whine. It surprised her. “No, I’m not.” He said it as if simple fact.
	Starr pursed her lips. 
“I’m sorry about Alnerki,” she said again. “He’ll come around, eventually. And he did help us. Even if you don’t like him, he’s still a good person. He only wants what’s best for the people he cares about.”
	“I’m not upset about Alnerki,” Lynx said, still not looking at her. “He can do whatever he likes. It is his boat.”
	Starr frowned. That didn’t sound right. “Then what’s wrong?”
	“Akusa,” Lynx looked up and met her eyes, his the same disarming blue as always and filled with accusation. “Akusa is what’s wrong.”
	“Akusa?” Starr dropped backwards to sit on her knees, confused. 
	“Akusa was in love with me,” Lynx said, fiercely, not breaking eye contact. Starr’s heart wrenched several feet to the left. “Not pretending, not just for fun. Completely and utterly in love with me. I could feel it coming off her in peals. And she’d never even seen me before.”
	“Oh,” Starr said. She could feel her heartbeat. It seemed to be choking her. “Is that a bad thing?” 
	Lynx was steely-eyed. “They weren’t her feelings, Starr. She didn’t understand what was going on.” 
	Starr stared at him for several seconds, not understanding. 
	“The feedback,” Lynx prompted. “She was affected by the feedback.”
	 Starr swallowed. “Then Elania’s –“
	“No,” Lynx interrupted her. “It wasn’t Elania.” He looked away, staring at the floor. “This wasn’t Elania at all.” 
	They sat there in silence, Starr clutching her hands to her lips and Lynx refusing to look at her. I mustn’t cry, Starr told herself. I’ve done nothing wrong. I mustn’t cry. She took her hands away.
	“Lynx - ”
	“You could have told me you were in love with me,” he turned back to her, watching her with hurt blue eyes from underneath his eyebrows. “You could have. That’s not how I wanted to find out.” 
	Starr just looked at him, looked at his yellow hair, hanging in strings from lack of washing, looked at the smudge of darker skin sitting defiantly across his nose. His blue eyes were just as disarming as they had been the first time they met, all intelligence and selfishness and deeper than they had any right to be. Oh, to hell with it, she thought, and kissed him.  
	And to her surprise, he kissed her back.


	She was wearing a green dress of crushed silk and pearl netting that hugged her bust before cascading loosely to the floor. It was, she had decided, not terribly her thing, but at least in such a dress she did not feel out of place in the polished ballroom. A silly thing, a dress, to give her confidence, but she would have not been able to approach him otherwise. 
	Lynx stood demurely at one end of the room, politely greeting any the Lords and Ladies in the queue around him and looking precisely the part of the charming prince. His hair was controlled by a ponytail, tied with a ribbon, and sleek for once instead of bushy. This carefully manicured appearance was, she knew, a facade as much as her own, and beneath the matching ascots and handkerchiefs and tie pins he was as frustrated and sarcastic and sharp as ever. 
	And so, she stood in line and waited to address the King. 
	
	She met his eyes when it was her turn.
	“Hello,” she said cautiously. 
	He only smiled politely at her. “We thank you for joining us tonight. We hope your evening is a pleasant one.” 
	She looked at him as long as she dared but his face held no hint of recognition beneath the vague disinterest and frozen smile. The connection she sought was not present in his eyes tonight. She smiled prettily in response, curtseyed, and left, moving back into the throng of the ballroom. 
	And that, she told herself, walking slightly more briskly than was absolutely necessary, was that. 
	
	People were talking, but neither one of them could hear it.
	“I thought you hated me,” Lynx admitted quietly, his chin resting on the top of her head. 
	“Who says I don’t?” she stood on her tip toes and kissed him again, gently. 
	Lynx smiled his goofy half-smile and swept her off her feet and into his arms. 	“You might want to reconsider, then,” he said mildly and turned around to face the crowd.
	The entire palace had assembled on the lawn, staring at them in various states of  shock and worry, the previous silence dissolving into rumors and mumblings and outrage. Starr gasped slightly and squirmed in Lynx’s arms, but he gripped her stubbornly and refused to let her get down. She squeaked in embarrassment and buried her face in his chest, hidden away from the curious looks. 
	
	“I wish to see L’rehan,” Lynx said formally.
	The D’nani at the door regarded him suspiciously. “The ambassador is busy right now.” His speech was heavily accented. “I can make you an appointment, mebbe.”
	“I don’t want to see him for political reasons,” Lynx tilted his head to one side. “I want to commission him.”
	“For what?” the D’nani pulled on his braid. 
	“Some metalwork,” Lynx said irritably. “That’s what Theran D’nani do, correct? I want jewelry. D’nani craftsmanship is unmatched and L’rehan’s the best. I want the best.” 
	“Well...as long as it’s not politics...I suppose I can let you in...” the double door creaked open enough to admit him. Lynx stepped through into the cool building. 
	“L’rehan’s set up shop in the gardens,” the D’nani said. “I’ll take you.”
	
	Magnified by a polished glass lens, Alnerki carefully bent a flattened wire into a swirl with a tiny pair of pliers. The wire would form the last petal on a silver bracelet, later to be set and filled with colored enamel. One more twist of the pliers and he would be done.
	“L’rehan, that Elyan is here to see you again.”
	Alnerki swore and slammed the pliers down on his workbench, pushing his glass lenses out of the way. 
	“Well?” he turned to Lynx. “What do you want?”
	Lynx nodded at him in a stiff greeting. “I want to commission you,” he said. 
	Alnerki laughed. “Why would you want that?”
	“Because,” Lynx glanced meaningfully at the other D’nani. He was watching their exchange with curiosity and showing no signs of leaving. “I’d rather discuss this in private.”
	Alnerki scowled. “Revallo, go find something else to do. You’re making the Elyan uncomfortable.” 
	As Revallo sulked away, Alnerki folded his arms at Lynx. “Now, what is so important you can’t discuss it in front of my men?”
	“I want a piece of jewelry,” Lynx said. “I’ll hire you for a commission.” 
	“I don’t take commissions from Elyan,” Alnerki said flatly. “Those days are long over.”
	Worry flickered across Lynx’s facade. “Why not?” he asked. 
	“Trade disputes, Your Majesty,” Alnerki snorted. “For some reason the D’nani don’t want to trade with the Elyan. They have this crazy notion that they were being extorted from.” 
	Lynx looked distinctly unhappy. “Please, Alnerki. This is important.” 
	“So is everything else in the world,” Alnerki shook his head. “And you never do anything without a reason, Lynx. You have more than one motive for being here. Let me guess at one,” he looked at Lynx sideways. “You want a ring.” 
	“Yes,” Lynx said helplessly. 
	“Why would I make such a thing for you, Lynx? Why would I, the leader of the Nog’Rog D’nani, give my services to the king of the Elves?”
	“This has nothing to do with politics,” Lynx said quietly. 
	“This has everything to do with politics,” Alnerki stood. “Everything involving you does. You can’t escape it. So tell me again, why should I make you a ring?”
	“I want your approval,” Lynx said. “In the end, it won’t affect a thing, but I do want it.” 
	Alnerki grunted. He said nothing. 
	“I can reopen trade, Alnerki. I can give you sovrenty, even. I promise - I’ll do whatever the D’nani request of me.”
	“And sell my cousin for it?” Alnerki laughed. “I thought you said this has nothing to do with politics.” 
	Lynx shook his head. “You know what I mean, L’rehan. You’re ensconced in this just as much as I am. You want this as much as I do.”
	Alnerki harumphed. “What if I refuse?”
	“Then I’ll marry her anyway.”
	“Oh? What does Starr have to say about this?”
	Lynx faltered momentarily. He flushed.
	“You haven’t asked her yet, have you? And that’s why you want the ring.” Alnerki sighed, shoving his hands into the pockets of his apron. “What if she refuses?”
	“Then I respect her wishes,” Lynx was tense. “And yours, if you make me a ring.” 
	Alnerki was silent. “I think its a terrible match,” he said after a while. 
	“An Elyan King and a D’nani refugee? Stranger things have happened.” 
	“Not even. An Elyan brat and and a head-strong magician? You’ll murder each other in your sleep.” 
	Lynx actually laughed, free and easy. “I’ll take the risk,” he said, amused. 
	“What kind of piece do you want, Your Majesty?” Alnerki sounded tired, suddenly, weary of their conversation. “Did you have a specific idea in mind?”
	“You said the ring you made for my sister...it was your favorite.”
	“I might have said something of the sort. What of it?”
	“It’s your design, Alnerki. Your approval, your design. What have you always wanted to make your cousin? Make that.”
	“And have it be your crowning gift? I don’t think I like that.”
	“It won’t come from me, Alnerki. It will come from you. I promise you that.”
	Alnerki closed his eyes and shook his head in disbelief. “In return, I want trade reopened and a representative of my choosing appointed to Parliament. A Racial Consul, I believe. Our Ambassador. We’ll negotiate sovereignty with Parliament.” 
	“Did you have someone in mind, or will you be playing the roll of Ambassador?”
	“Not me. Your girlfriend. Appoint Starr Racial Consul.”
	Lynx paused. “I don’t know if I can do that.”
	“Why not? She needs a title if you’re to marry her and I need a blood tie to Parliament. Plus, I hate it this far north. Too much snow for my liking.” 

	“And, of course, there’s the issue of an heir,” he paused expectantly, eyes flickering across the smug faces of the Dux and licked his cracked lips. “Lyradis is in a time of turmoil and Okirun has already proved his aggression towards our monarchy. A disruption in the royal line at a time like this could be disastrous. Lyradis has barely survived Artensia’s military force - I doubt she could survive a civi war.” 
	“I completely agree,” Lynx said easily. He felt the rooms attention swivel towards him. He smiled amicably at the noble faces. “I think it’s finally time for me to marry.” 
	Shock and dismay were apparent on almost every Lord’s face. Others verged on outright anger. 
	“Surely you can not mean the D’nani girl?” Malthinae said, voice cracking as much as his lips. 
	“I do mean her,” Lynx said winningly, and he leaned forward, resting his chin on folded hands. “She’s a perfect political candidate.”
	“Your Majesty,” Ander piped in nervously. “She has no prospects, no dowery. She is not qualified to be Queen.”
	“She hardly needs to be Queen,” Lynx met the Dux’s eyes. Most humans found his blue stare unnerving and soon enough Ander looked away. “I believe a Consort title is applicable in a case like this.” 
	Disapproval rippled around the long table. Lynx turned his stare on each of the nobles in turn until they quieted and an uneasy silence descended on the room. He smiled. 
	“Good,” he said and unfolded his hands. “With the Artensian affair winding to a close, I believe it’s time to address the demands of the D’nani.” A groan went up but he continued speaking, voice slightly raised. “We’ve had no political contact with them for almost ten years and our trade disagreements span even longer. The economy of our country has suffered severely without them and with the continuing disputes in Artensia we can hardly afford to ignore the vast resources the D’nani contingency represents. A first step to reconciliation is reappointing a D’nani Consol.”
	The Dux did not like this. Racial Consols had the same vote as a Dux in the Lords’ Chamber - the reappointment would diminish their power. 
	“And you’d appoint your D’nani companion as a consol?” Malthinae said angrily. 
	“Yes. I would,” Lynx said. “Starriphon Theran is the perfect candidate. She is classically educated, of age, and the only remaining kin of the man who calls himself L’rehan.”
	“Lord Makael, is it terribly wise to appoint a Consul without appealing to the D’nani themselves?” Landon interrupted, his question carrying lazily on the still air. “Wouldn’t they like to choose their own political representative?” 
	“The D’nani have deemed her acceptable as well,” Lynx said levelly. “I offered the post to L’rehan himself in leu of D’nani support of the Arten War. It was refused.” 
	The nobles were now shifting uncomfortably, less powerful Eorls desperately trying to make eye contact with their Dux.
	“You plan to appoint her regardless,” Landon said siffly. 
	“Yes,” said Lynx. “And I plan to marry her as well.” 
	“Fine then,” Landon leaned back. “Last I had checked, political appointment was one power we let you keep.  We couldn’t oppose you without a 3/4 vote in Parliament. And no, Malthinae, too many Lords have lost brothers or sons to our shenanigans. It would be too expensive for too little a reward.” 
	Malthinae scowled and the remaining Lords looked on edge. 
	“As for the subject of marriage...” Landon’s frowned deepened and he shook his head. “Without supporting Family, royal marriages must be approved by Parliament. And I don’t think Parliament will find there are...mmm...political benefits to this union.” 
	“I intend to marry her with or without Parliament’s approval,” Lynx said wildly. “I thought I made that clear. A legal marriage, blessed by the Creed, would be the one thing I can do to secure my throne. Recently I’ve found it in danger from more than petty thieves.” 
	“A pity,” Landon’s voice lacked irony. Lynx stared at him dangerously.
	“Lynx,” Dux Hayber spoke up worriedly for the first time. “Consider what you are doing. The royal line will continue, yes, but diluted with D’nani blood. No more Elyan on their rightful throne, no more -”
	“Yes, thank you, Dux Hayber,” Lynx sighed. “Have you not thought that I’ve considered this? As most men at this table will tell you, it is no longer the era of the Elyan. Elyan children are miscarried in the womb or stillborn. We are reaching the end of our species, Hayber. We can no longer afford to stay ‘pure’ and I cannot afford a marriage without an heir.” He looked out over the table. 
	“Well?” he said. “It is time for your King to marry. Find me a more suitable bride, a woman better situated to the roll of Queen. A fertile Elvan maid, perhaps, or a Human heiress. No pairing would benefit the country more than a union with a D’nani. I am offering you a compromise, although you are too blind to see it. The woman I choose, with no power other than a single vote in Parliament, and with that vote, renewed access to all of the D’nani riches. I have said I will marry her with your approval or without it and I mean it, even for all the scandal it entails. But it is always easier to do something with permission than without it.”
	“You would know,” Landon said. “Very well, a vote will be taken at the next session of both houses. You will know then.


	He pressed her firmly against the wall with his body, the heat of him making her dizzy. It was already difficult to breathe. One hand was on her waist, the other intertwined with hers, pinning her wrist flat above her head. He covered her neck with tiny soft kisses and urgently nibbled an earlobe. His breath was in her ear, as warm and wet as a kiss. 
	“I want you,” he was practically panting, breath ragged. He released her hand and intertwined his fingers with hers. He felt of beautiful desperation. 
	Starr made a last ditch attempt at some semblance of control. “Heaven forbid I deny you something you want,” she said meekly. 
	Lynx laughed and pulled away, his face all smile. He gathered her into his arms. “Yes I am a spoiled brat,” he agreed and kissed her full on the mouth. The kiss was sweet and tender, but the desperation was still there. Starr threw her arms around his neck and threw herself into the kiss, but Lynx pulled away. His eyes eyes searched her face and then he gently kissed the tip of her nose. 
	“I love you,” he said and it was pure and simple. He threw his head back and laughed again, voice high like a giggle. “Gods! You don’t know how good that feels to say! It’s been so hard!” 
	“Hard compared to what?” Starr said slyly. She slid a hand down his front, settling  it well below his waistband. 
	Lynx grinned his goofy, awkward grin, and pushed against her encouragingly. His hands moved down from her waist, cupping her curves and pulling her closer. 
	She kissed him then and his lips sloped against hers, warm in all the right places. He mumbled something sleepily into the kiss as he nibbled her lips. 
	A though occurred to Starr, clear and worrisome amongst her all too comfortable haze. She pushed Lynx away, and he stopped, surprised. 
	“What about Landon?” she asked accusingly. 
	One eyebrow raised. “There’s no way I’m kissing him,” Lynx said matter-of-fact-ly, moving close to her again and leaning in to kiss her. He was playing. 
	Starr pushed him away again, hard this this time, both hands against his collarbone. “I’m serious, Lynx,” she said, now completely wrought with worry. It hurt her to stop, to retain this control, and it scared her that Lynx lacked it. 
	Lynx released her and sighed, sinking backwards onto a chez. He swung one leg up, half reclining, the outline of his arousal was clearly visible. Starr swallowed against her desire; he was taunting her. It wasn’t fair; she wanted this, too.
	Annoyance flashed across Lynx’s face, but he bit his lip and let out a long breath. “Can’t I just have this?” he asked pleadingly. “Is that so difficult?”
	“Please, Lynx,” Starr stood her ground, feeling a fool. She was going to lose him. “I can’t -- I can’t get you in trouble.”
	He scowled. “I’m already in trouble. I’ve been in trouble my entire life. It’s nothing to do with you.”
	The emotion they had shared a moment before had gone, settled back under layers of longing. Lynx swung himself fully onto the chez, arms behind his head, leaning on the armrest. 
	“Landon and his cronies will have nothing to say about it.” he said to the ceiling. “Everything I’ve chosen is legal and sanctioned. Plenty of Landon’s followers have mistresses of their own.”
	“So I’m your mistress, is it?” Mere weeks ago such an insinuation would have enraged her; now she only felt despair. Starr sunk against the wall, sliding down until she was clutching her knees. She wanted Lynx - he wanted her! - but she would never truly have him. 
	Lynx knew he had upset her. He got off the couch, kneeling close to her. “Not like that, Starr. Starr, look at me.” A single finger tilted her face towards his. How did anyone have a right to eyes that blue?
	“Kings don’t have -- girlfriends,” he said. “We have wives and mistresses.” 
	“And I’ll never be your wife,” Starr said gloomily. 
	This surprised Lynx. “Would you want to?” he asked. “I mean, I thought you had no taste for politics.”
	Starr shook her head. She had no words to explain why this upset her. Lynx sat back on the floor, crossing his legs and regarding her.
	“Besides,” he said airily, a slow smile spreading over his face, “never say never.”
	Starr looked up at him, wide eyed, and Lynx kissed her, fingers pressed softly to the side of her face. 
	When they finally moved apart, Lynx took her hand into his and kiss it gently, a prince sitting cross-legged amongst the books and papers. 
	“I love you and want you,” he said, “and I’m very, very good at getting what I want.”
	“And when you don’t want me any more? What happens then?”
	“Gods you’re difficult!” Lynx groaned, but it was good natured. “Starr, what in our entire history makes you think you would let me go? You wouldn’t let me leave you in Thamalia, and that was before I even knew you. You wouldn’t leave me to Okirun in Artensia. Even if I tried to leave, you wouldn’t let me. You’d feed me to D’nani sandwyrm or put snakes in my saddlebags.” 
	Starr smiled despite herself. “Not snakes,” she said. “It would be spiders and they would be in your bed.”
	Lynx laughed again. “Of course,” he agreed, but his tone turned serious. “I love you, Starr. That’s not something I say lightly. Or often. Why is it so difficult for you to believe me?”
	“Because,” Starr said slowly, trying to keep her voice level, “I’ve loved you for so long and all its done is made me miserable.”
	“Then why didn’t you tell me earlier?”
	“What, and have my heart broken?” she snapped. “Have you laugh in my face?  Risk you never talking to me again, risk you avoiding me like you did these past weeks? I don’t belong in your world, Lynx, you know that. Anything like that and you would have shut me out.” 
	“Starr - I -” Lynx looked pained. “You were supposed to be my sister.”
	“So you’re adding incest to the list of reasons why we couldn’t be together? I’m D’nani, I’m common, and I look like your sister! And you wanted me to tell you I was in love with you?!” Starr felt herself close to tears. “I love you, Lynx. And I couldn’t have you. I still can’t have you. You’re the bloody King of Lyradis!”
	“Starr -- STARR! Shut up a minute will you?” he rested his elbows on his knees and hunched forward.

	“Vertigo.”
	“What?” Jiao was standing there, his back turned to them and his cape whipping about in the wind. He didn’t look up.
	“Vertigo. The feeling you get when you look down from a very tall height. That dizziness and disorientation and despair and delight. What you’re experiencing,” he removed his hands from his pockets and turned and looked at them. “It’s magical vertigo.” 
	“But then we’d have to be standing at the edge of a precipice,” Lynx protested over the wind.
	“Yes,” Jiao spread his hands out. “A vast magical precipice. Beneath us is nothing – a hole in the worlds.” He looked frightening, his hair in disarray and his cloak tattered. Starr moved closer to Lynx and he put his arm around her. Lynx looked angrily at Jiao.
	“I don’t –“ he began, but Jiao interrupted him. 
	“You will.”

	It was slowly starting to snow. 
	Lynx looked up in alarm. It was almost summer -- there shouldn’t be snow this late in the year or this far south.
	“Snow,” he said, puzzled.
	“Yes,” Jiao replied. He sounded slightly disgusted, as if the snow were a symptom of a debilitating disease instead of just water from the sky. 
	“Large works of magic,” Jiao continued, “steal heat. Heat energy from the environment. Makes it colder. Makes it snow.” He stopped and stared at Starr as if seeing her for the first time. Lynx gulped and stepped between them. 
	“What did you do?” he asked accusingly, glancing worriedly at Starr. She wouldn’t meet his eyes. 
	Jiao blinked as if coming out of a daze. “Only enough to make it snow,”  he said, voice low with warning. 

	Starr looked at him, frozen and emotionless. Their breath was coming out in white puffs against the sudden cold. Lynx met her eyes, begging her silently not to do this, begging her not to leave him. 
	And in the cold and silent world, she smiled at him and effortlessly plucked the crystal from the necklace. 
	“No,” Lynx said, and then he was rushing frantically for her. “NOOO!”
	The world beneath him crumbled and he fell into the void. 


	“We are not allowed to hurt you,” she said bitterly, “and we must fulfill the terms of our existence before you leave here. But that doesn't mean we have to like you.” 
	Eltanin nodded in agreement. “As an Elyan, you should be under my jurisdiction.  But your circumstance falls under a higher authority,” Eltanin turned to Reesimah. “Can you find him?”
	Reesimah scowled. “Yes,” she said bitterly. “He told the girl where he was going.” 
	Lynx blinked slowly. 

	Reesimah reappeared suddenly, clamped angrily to Jiao’s wrist. Jiao’s eyes widened and with a cry he turned face and dove to the ground, gripping handfuls of cloud in both fists. Reesimah gritted her teeth. She grabbed both of his ankles and pulled violently. Jiao remained firmly attached to the cloud. 
	“Oh no you don’t!” Reesimah braced herself against the misty floor and yanked hard. Jiao refused to move.
	“No! Let me go! Reesimah!” Jiao cried. His appearance was fluctuating, wavering between his normal brown hair and something else with every one of Reesimah’s tugs. 
	“Eltanin!” Reesimah cried desperately, her grip slipping. “Do something!” 
	Eltanin glanced at the spectacle and tiredly raised one hand. The cloud beneath Jiao dissolved and he was flung backwards, overbalancing Reesimah and knocking her over. For an instance. Jiao looked stunned.
	“Bastard!” Reesimah screamed, trying to push him off of her. The clouds around her burst into small little flames and she succeeded in scrambling to her feet. Jiao sat up dejectedly and he was someone different. 
	His hair was now long and orange and it was tied behind his back in one thick braid. Several loose strands fell over his face, completely obscuring one eyes. He sighed and pushed at the braid. It cascaded neatly to the ground, coiling around itself in vibrant layers. He still wore tattered clothes, but they were more like the ones the Goddesses wore, fabric made of stars that draped over his shoulders and pooled on the surface of the clouds. Jiao stopped and tugged irritably at the thick gold bands that appeared on either arm. 
	“I hate these,” he mumbled. “They itch.” 
	“It’s your own fault,” Eltanin said irritably. “And you only have to wear them while you’re here. You’ll be gone again soon enough.” 
	Jiao looked at her mournfully. The clothes and armbands folded up into tendrils and rewove themselves around his body into a simple purple robe with only a few stars in it. His hair darkened, but remained orange, the tips tumbling into a deep red color. He smiled victoriously at no one in particular then sauntered to the nearest cloud and sat on it. 
	Eltanin just shrugged. Her ice blue eyes turned to Lynx. 
	Lynx was miserable. He just stared back. 

	That’s why we need him here,” Reesimah jerked her head in Jiao’s direction.
	“Me?!!” Jiao protested, bringing his head up from where it had been resting in his hands. He stared at Reesimah in horror. “Why do you need ME? Didn’t it ever occur to you that I would have done that a long time ago if I could have? Think, for once, Eltanin, before making assumptions.” 
Eltanin’s thin lips grew thinner. Reesimah stuck her chin out defiantly.
	“That’s not what we meant and you know it,” the D’nani Goddess sniffed. “I’m willing, now. You were lacking that before. But you’re the only one who knows how. We need you for that.”
Jiao gave her a strange look. He wrinkled his forehead at her and scrunched the corners of his mouth. “You won’t like it,” he said, finally. 
“Try me,” Reesimah said.
Jiao shrugged and seemed to loose interest. He waved a hand vaguely in the Goddesses’ direction and then slunk back to his cloud-throne. Reesimah gasped slightly, eyes wide, then sunk to the ground.
“Oh,” she said, clutching a handful of fluffy cloud in each fist. “I see.” 
The other Goddesses exchanged glances. They apparently hadn’t been let in on the secret.
“What is it?” Zosma said finally.
Reesimah turned to them with large green eyes. “Jiao’s going away.”
The three of them exchanged looks again. Lynx began to get frustrated.
“I don’t understand,” he said and stood up, leaning against cascade of fluffy white. It was surprisingly solid. “Will I see Starr again or not? What’s going on?”
Reesimah scowled. With her overly full mouth downturned and her perfect nosed scrunched, she could almost be Starr. Lynx felt awful. 
“Oh, you’ll see her,” it was Jiao who spoke. He was watching Lynx with interest, a lazy smile in his yellow eyes. “It will cost you, though.”
Lynx said nothing. He wondered if he would be able to pay the price.
“I’m sorry,” Eltanin said simply. She stared at him with what could have been pity, but her face and voice made it difficult to tell.
“We all are,” Zosma said kindly. 
“I’m not,” Reesimah said self-righteously. Everyone turned to her. “Well, I’m not,” she protested. “I want her out of my head. They are gross together. I don’t care how, I want that gone,” she looked at Jiao and Lynx in turn. “I hate you both,” she said definitively. 
Jiao actually laughed, a deep ringing laugh that resonated and echoed through non-existent vaults. He smiled at her. “You’ll miss me when I’m gone,” he said, smiling.
	Reesimah blushed. Zosma stepped forward. “So you are leaving, then,” she said timidly.
“I will be, as soon as Reesimah does her part,” Jiao said stiffly. “I’m sorry, it can’t be helped.”
“But…we’ll die,” Zosma said weakly. 
“Eventually, yes,” Jiao said. “It won’t be for another thousand years or so, though.” 
“Stay,” Enaka’s voice cut in abruptly. “Change it.”
“I can’t,” he sighed and his voice turned hard. “It’s either you do this, and accept your ends, or you don’t exist at all. Your choice, really, but it shouldn’t be a hard one to make.”
Something in Lynx stirred distantly, an odd flutter of familiarity at Jiao’s words. He shook his head, pushing it to the back of his mind. Reesimah had crossed her arms.
“I’ve said, I’ll do it,” Reesimah she said sulkily. “I want my life to be my choice.” 
The other Goddesses stood very still, hair whipping about them in the non-existent wind. Eventually, Eltanin stepped forward. 
“We accept your decision, Reesimah,” she said. Then, unexpectedly she turned and bowed before Jiao. “We will miss you, my lord.” 
Jiao gave her one of his most sarcastic looks. 
“All that’s left is him, then,” Reesimah floated slightly off the clouds and jerked her head towards Lynx. Everyone turns toward him. The eyes of the Gods were on him.
Lynx found it too much. “I just want Starr back,” he said weakly. “I’ll do anything, even give my own life. I just…want her. Back.”
“You needn’t give up your life,” Jiao said mildly. “That would be somewhat pointless in the long run, although, I admit, romantic. No, what we need from you is quite the opposite, in fact.” 
“Opposite?” 
“We need your death,” said Reesimah happily. Jiao glared at her.
“Quite,” he said.
“What?” Lynx stepped backwards. “What do you mean?”
Jiao sighed. “Starr, as you know her, exists as part of Reesimah. While Reesimah is willing to give that part of herself up to be reformed as the Starr you knew, it’s physically impossible currently. The separated Starr would be still be of divine status, meaning she’d only be able to exist on the plane of the gods, here, in fact, which isn’t what you want at all. She’d also be subject to the same physical limitations as Reesimah and the other Goddesses, meaning she’d grow and be dependent on the amount of people who believed in or worshiped her at any one time. As her followers currently consist of you, and only you, she’d thin out of existence almost immediately. Alone, you’re not powerful enough to support anything like that. At least, not yet, anyway. 
“While I’m sure Reesimah wouldn’t object to such an arrangement, she knows I would, and so, together, we are going to give you Starr back as you knew her; a mortal D’nani girl complete with all the good and bad personality traits that you find so charming. Capiche?” 
“What?” Lynx said and stared dumbly at Jiao. Jiao stared dumbly back. Reesimah looked at them both, and with a disgruntled sigh continued the explanation.
“The only way you can have her back is if she’s mortal,” the D’nani said. “But being mortal is complicated – not only does it require the creation of life, but also something else.”
 “A death,” Enaka’s voice broke through. Lynx turned to look at her, but Jiao started talking.
“We can only give what we have to give; we can create life with a divine status, because it is the same as us. But we cannot create life on earth as you know it, as much as they’d like you to believe. 

	“STARR!” 
	Lynx sat upright, jolted awake from a terrible nightmare. The night air was cool and a gentle breeze ruffled the tips of the tall grass. He gasped, catching his breath, and searched the see of grass. 
	“Starr?! Starr!” 
	Somewhere next to him, Starr moaned and pushed herself off the ground, her head skimming into view above the meadow. 
	“My head,” she groaned. “Lynx, where are we?” 
	“In the middle of a grassy field,” Lynx replied, shaking with joy and relief. Just seeing Starr next to him was a cause for celebration, although he couldn’t for the life of him remember quite why. 
	“Oh dear,” Starr looked down at herself. “I appear to be naked. However did that happen?”
	“No idea,” Lynx said, “but I don’t mind in the slightest.” He crawled over to where she sat, kissing her gently before pushing her down and out of view. Around them, the wind made ripples. 

	“No!”
	From his purchase on the platform, Landon regarded them. 
	“We agreed on a public execution, Regent,” Landon said implacably. “A public execution. They need to see their king is dead.”
	Torchlight flickered across Okirun’s cruel grin. “Think on it, Landon!” He called back. “Who has the troops? Who has the power? I can crush you, Landon. I can take your precious Lyradis from you.”
	Landon looked only at Okirun, dark shadows showing where the lines on his face would be in ten years time. There were flashes of light and thunder in the distance, and the patter of stone shards hitting stone. “I want their heads,” he said finally, and turned and was gone.
	“No!” Lynx slammed against the soldiers holding him, struggling to get free. He was knocked over the head, hard, for his efforts. Somewhere, far away, he heard Starr cry out for him. He looked up. 
	Okirun stood over him, dark and

	“Where will you go?”
	Lynx couldn’t bare to look at the lifeless body behind him. He felt broken, sick to his stomach, and he could not even muster the energy to understand what was happening. 
	“I don’t know,” he said, utterly defeated. “Where did you burry her?”
	Jiao looked away. “With the D’nani. She never fully belonged to you, not really. You took so much away from her.” 
	Lynx nodded. He thought he understood, or if not, would understand later. “She shouldn’t stay in Thamalia. There’s no place for either of us.” 
	“To Sancriest?” Jiao sighed. “I’ll take you there.”  Lynx had moved back to her body, kneeling on the damp grass with her head in his lap. He was softly stroking her hair, the dead face turned up towards the sky. Jiao watched wordlessly, the world for that moment still and silent. 
	When Lynx managed to look up again, the sky was blue. The field was gone, replaced by low and wiry mountain grass interspersed with wildflowers, and Jiao was nowhere. 
	He rested Starr’s head on the ground and stood, panicking. “Jiao?” he screamed. “Jiao!” 
	His voice, high and hoarse, echoed out across the empty land with no reply. He collapsed next to her body and tried, futility, to stop shaking. The only thing left for him to do was wait.

	
Epilogue 

	“L’rehan, you need to come see this.”
	Alnerki looked up jerking his shoulders once more out of the dressers’ reach. “I’m busy,” he said irritably. The dresser made another attempt to pin a cape to his leather jerkin but Alnerki swiped him away. 
	“I feel a fool,” he said. “None of this is necessary.”
	“Sir,”

	“Alnerki,” Lynx began hesitantly. 
	Alnerki punched him in the face. 
	“Alnerki!” Lynx staggered backwards. “What - ?”
	Alnerki and punched him again, knocking him to the ground, and with a cry drove a knee into his chest. He slammed Lynx’s head into the ground, breaking his nose. Lynx coughed, blood dribbling down his chin, and kicked viciously. Wit a dull thud, his boots connected with the other man’s chest and Alnerki was sent flying backwards. He rolled and launched himself at Lynx again, attempting to drive a shoulder into the Elf’s stomach. Lynx sidestepped, bringing an elbow crashing down in-between the leather plates protecting the D’nani’s back. 
	Alnerki cried out and doubled over, gritting his teeth. Lynx 


(To include in exposition: Elania’s death, Creed, Elves birthrate, Landon, Aedre (is now L’s cousin who was uninterested in the throne/a black elf), mind magic?, feedback?, more D’nani,?) 